Chima Azubuike, Gombe The National Orientation Agency has appealed to legislators in Gombe State as well as the executive to expedite action on the domestication of the Child Rights Act to curb the growing spate of rape in the state. The acting State Director of the NOA, Hajiya Adaline Waye, said this in an interview with Northern City News in Gombe on Thursday. She explained that a number of cases involving the defilement of minors, especially girls by adults, as well as other forms of abuse of children had been stalled largely due to the non-domestication of the Act. Waye stated, “There are moral and traditional fears about the Act. It does not mean you cannot correct your child under the domestication. We are not planning to bring the ones done in other state or countries. “It can be implemented in such a way that it will reflect our custom and religion in Gombe State.  Rapists are most of the times paraded and if nothing is done, such practices will continue. “The few cases that are taken to court often do not result in conviction. Some rape for selfish reasons such as the need to satisfy an urge or for some fetish or diabolical reasons.” Waye urged the state government, especially the ministries of justice and women affairs, to see the Act through. She explained that there were attempts by previous administrations to domesticate the Act but for some inexplicable reasons, it had remained a dream. The acting director said, “Women should have good relationships with their children; the issue of child upbringing is not only about women, fathers must also take responsibility. “Women are more often with the children; so these children find it difficult to listen to them, but a male voice will help to drive home the point.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 