Peter Dada, Akure Two weeks after the disappearance of one-year-old Gold Kolawole from a church in Akure, Ondo State, the incident is still generating reactions from different quarters as a group has called on the state police command to conduct a thorough investigation into the incident. The boy went missing during the Sotitobire Praising Chapel’s Sunday service two weeks ago and his whereabouts have remained unknown since then. The mother of the missing boy, Mrs Modupe Kolawole, had called on the founder of the church, Prophet Alfa Babatunde, and the police to help her find Gold. The command initially said the matter was not officially reported at the station, but later declared the boy missing A human rights group, the Sunshine for Integrity and Justice, has frowned on the way the police are handling the matter. The coordinator of the group, Mr Odion Matthew, in a statement issued on Tuesday, alleged that the police were being lackadaisical in their investigation. He warned the command against allowing the matter to be swept under the carpet. READ ALSO: Motorcyclist rescuing accident victim electrocuted in Lagos The statement read in part, “It is a thing of shame and ineptitude for the Ondo State Police Command not to have taken any serious step on the matter. A whole human being is missing and the police seem to have kept quiet about it; it is unfortunate. “For over two weeks now, nobody has been arrested or interrogated among the caregivers in the church, under whose care the boy went missing. How did a boy got missing among many children at the juvenile section of the church and the police are keeping quiet?  This is not good enough for a country like Nigeria. We believe we are not in a jungle. So, the police must act on this matter.” The group called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, to order a full-scale investigation into the matter. However, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, denied that the police were silent on the matter, adding that the case was being investigated. “We are not keeping quiet on the matter; the Commissioner of Police has ordered the matter to be transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department for proper investigation,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 