Deji Lambo The General Manager, New Towns Development Authority, Lagos State, Aderenle Oni, has said the plan to convert a green belt in the Magodo G.R.A. Phase 1 to a housing estate, to be known as The Plush, is illegal and without the approval of the state government. Oni stated this after a visit to the green belt on Tuesday following PUNCH Metro’s report that a consortium of land-grabbers, a company and traditional authorities had blocked and re-directed the canal in the green belt, which is located in a vast gorge that separates Magodo GRA phases 1 and 2. The promoters of the housing estate were said to have marketed the green belt as dry land to unsuspecting members of the public and had also advertised the estate as part of the Gateway Zone CDA, Magodo G.R.A Phase 1, noting that access to the site would be through its main gate. The Chairman of the estate, Oyebode Ojomu, while refuting this claim, explained that the plan by the promoters portended danger and environmental hazards for members of the public, stressing that The Plush was never part of the Gateway Zone CDA and that the road access to it would not be through the Gateway Zone CDA. READ ALSO: Strange woman disappears with two kids in Rivers After visiting the site on Tuesday, Oni said the project was unauthorised, adding that it was illegal. He told PUNCH Metro, “I was able to see the location and action are going on there. What they are doing there is illegal; nobody should be sand-filling the wetland; it is not allowed and nobody authorised them to do so. “We met some persons on the site and we were told that a man asked them to do what they were doing, but we did not see the man. We told them that if they have any genuine papers, they should bring them to the NTDA.” The Managing Director, WAVL Properties Limited, Olawale Bello, and the Managing Director, Adloyalty Business Network, Freeman Osonuga, in a joint statement on Tuesday, introduced themselves as the developers and promoters of The Plush. Their statement read in part, “As the official developers, we inform the general public that all necessary permits were filed and official permissions have been observed (sic). The said land is covered by Lagos State Gazette No. 11 Vol. 30 of May 1, 1997, and that it is not a green belt of the Magodo Zone community. “We are currently in talks with all necessary parties and are making plans for an alternative entrance into the allocated land, which will eventually become the main entrance to the Plush Magodo GRA Phase 1.” When PUNCH Metro requested documents to back the claim that the gorge had been approved for the construction of the housing estate, the developers promised to provide them but had yet to do so as of press time. The CDA, through its Chairman, Ojomu, however, faulted the statement by the promoters of The Plush. According to Ojomu, the statement woefully failed to offer valid proof that the plan of the promoters to build an estate on a stretch of wetland that is prone to heavy flooding in a community that is also prone to landslides is legal, reasonable, environmentally-friendly and safe. He said, “Given the foregoing, the executive committee of the Gateway Zone CDA wishes to reiterate its stand on this contentious estate, that it is an environmental time bomb with potentially dangerous consequences for the environment, for our community and for the state. “Rather than reassure our community or other critical stakeholders, the statement strongly implies that the promoters are totally oblivious to the clear, present and future danger that the project constitutes to the environment and the security of lives and property in Magodo and the adjoining communities of Isheri, Olowora, Omole Phase 2 and others. “We strongly aver that the location being marketed as The Plush is clearly marked as a gorge, wetland and a green belt area in the LASG/NTDA master plan layout. Historically, and especially in recent times, this area is known to be prone to flooding and landslides. Any claim to the contrary by any individual or group of individuals, especially to the effect that the area is a dry land is fraudulent and false. “As leaders of a community of lawful Nigerian citizens and law-abiding Lagos State residents charged with the responsibility of protecting and defending the interests of the Gateway Zone Estate, we are reluctant to join issues with those who have consistently refused to heed our several warnings on the dangers of their actions and who have consistently behaved as land-grabbers driven by only one motivation: money. “Our decision to raise the alarm on the danger that this project constituted to our community was borne out of our frustration, having failed to get the promoters and their backers to see reason, and the recent incidents of violence and thuggery orchestrated by the promoters of The Plush against our estate officers and officials. “It is quite clear to every right–thinking member of our community that these promoters, who blocked canals and natural floodplains and sand-filled a swampy wetland in order to build their estates, are not interested in safeguarding the future of our community.” The CDA appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and all other concerned government agencies to handle the matter with the urgency that it deserved and caution the promoters of the Plush, especially in view of the recent flooding in different parts of the state and the disruption of economic activities. It also objected to any plan to create an access route to The Plush through its community as this might further exacerbate some of the environmental challenges being experienced in the furthermost part of Magodo Phase 1. An online user, @adedayoakadiri, while reacting to the earlier story, said, “I suspected foul play when the land was offered to me for N30m earlier in the year against N60m per plot in adjoining the estate. I knew it would crash like the MMM, but some gullible people have paid.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 