Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The All Progressives Congress on Tuesday held its final  campaign ahead  of Saturday’s  Bayelsa State governorship election. At the event, which took place at the Ox-Bow Lake Pavilion in Yenagoa, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, was recognised by APC leaders at the rally   as the  deputy governorship candidate of the party despite being disqualified by an Abuja Division of the Federal High Court  earlier  on Tuesday. In its ruling, the  court  agreed with the  Peoples Democratic Party  that Degi-Eremienyo provided conflicting information in  the  documents  he submitted to the  Independent National Electoral Commission and disqualified him from the polls. Meanwhile, about  20 other parties, represented by Williams Ifidi adopted the APC candidate David Lyon  for as their sole candidate for  Saturday’s  contest. Two  prominent leaders of the party who took part in the  primary poll, Heineken Lokpobiri and  Preye Aganaba – were absent from  the campaign. The National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole;  and  the Governor of Kebbi State and Chairman of the  Progressives Governors’ Forum, Atiku Bagudu, were among those who addressed Degi-Eremienyo as Lyon’s  running mate  at the event. Oshiomhole, who presented Lyon and Degi-Eremienyo to the crowd, expressed  hope that Lyon would emerge victorious at the  polls. He advised  Governor Seriake Dickson against   resorting to violence in his quest to ensure victory for the ruling PDP. Oshiomhole  described Lyon as “humble and harmless”. The ex-Edo State governor  said, “We believe in one man, one vote; one woman, one vote. Even outgoing Governor Dickson, one vote and of course, one Lyon, one vote.” The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, who is also the Director-General of the  Bayelsa State Governorship Campaign Council, said Dickson had taken Bayelsans for a ride. He alleged that the Dickson administration  received over N1tn with nothing on the ground to justify the money in the past eight years. The  Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief  Godswill Akpabio, asked the people  of the state to reject the PDP. Omo-Agege  said, “So much money, so much resources have been pumped into this state as an oil-producing state, not only in terms of federal allocation but receipts from  the 13 per cent derivation. When you come to Bayelsa you will not see anything on  the ground.” The  Chairman, APC National Campaign Council and Governor of Jigawa State,  Badaru Abubakar, said  Bayelsa and  the people had been under “tyranny and intimidation in the past eight years”, stressing that change had come to the state. Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola  and Bagudu  said  Bayelsa was in need of help and the APC had brought help to the state. Lyon said he was prepared to tackle the problems of insecurity, darkness in Yenagoa and  youth unemployment. The governorship candidate, who blamed the PDP for youth unemployment in the state,  urged the people  “to vote out the PDP”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 