Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Katsina State Chairman of the National Conscience Party, Abdulmumin Shehusani, was on Monday remanded in a Katsina correction facility till December 5 on the orders of Chief Magistrate Nuradeen Abdullah. The chief magistrate directed that Shehusani should be in the facility until the date he would give a ruling on whether his court had power to grant him bail or not. The development followed the chief magistrate’s earlier ruling in the day that the police had brought the NCP chairman before him under wrong laws. Following the ruling, the police replaced the former First Information Report containing the initial charges with a new one. The new FIR contained charges of defamation of character, injurious falsehood and cyberstalking. The police brought the new charges under Sections 368 and 369 of Criminal Code of Kaduna State, 2019 and Section 24 of Cybercrime Prohibition, Prevention, etc, Act, 2015. The police told the court that the charges filed against the party chairman following a complaint by Governor Aminu Masari that Shehusani defamed him at a press conference. The police said the governor complained that the NCP chairman alleged at the press conference that he bribed members of the state governorship election petitions tribunal. The NCP chairman was also said to have posted copies of his address at the press conference on his Facebook wall. The NCP Chairman’s  plea was not taken as the chief magistrate said one of the charges brought against him, cyberstalking,  could only be tried in a federal high court. His counsel, Chukwumeka Kalu, pleaded with the court to grant his client bail. The police prosecutor, SP Joshua Kpandegh, however opposed the bail plea, insisting that since the magistrate court could not try the accused person, it lacked jurisdiction to grant him bail. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 