Femi Makinde and Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Lagos State Government has asked contractors handling road construction in the state to map out strategies to ease the gridlock being experienced by motorists in the state. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy in the state, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, said this at the inauguration of the ‘Don’t Drink and Drive’ awareness campaign organised by the management of Lagos Traffic Radio. The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, Lagos State Chapter has also said it plans to collaborate with the Lagos State Government to manage traffic jam in the state. Omotosho expressed concern at the plight of motorists and commuters on Lagos roads, saying that was why the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu partnered the police to alleviate the suffering of Lagos residents caused by gridlock, while warning against drink-driving and recklessness on the road. He said, “Also, saving lives that could have been lost to alcohol-induced road crashes is a top priority for this government. As a result, initiatives, such as this, aimed at reducing road crashes on account of alcohol-impaired driving are commendable and must be supported by all and sundry. “The problem (gridlock) is more persistent on the Agege Motor Road where construction work is ongoing. Based on this, the state government has directed the contractor to put measures in place to alleviate the plight of Lagosians all through the period of the construction.” The CILT, on the other hand, stated that as an institute of professionals from the aviation, maritime, rail and logistics value chain, it would offer valuable advice to the government on how to manage traffic crisis in the state. The Lagos State Chapter Chairman of CILT, Mr James Opaluwa, said the institute had seen the government’s efforts and interest in transportation and traffic flow, hence the need to support. “We have been working with the government before now. We once had an engagement with the Nigerian Navy and Nigeria Police Force. This resulted in the creation of one free lane in Apapa,” he said. Opaluwa, who spoke during the CILT, Lagos Chapter ‘Walkathon 2019’, said the institute was prepared to work with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on his transportation agenda in the state. According to him, the institute has prepared a blueprint and has written to the governor and the Ministry of Transportation on the willingness to bring in the expertise of its members into traffic and logistics management in Lagos. “We have written to the governor and shortly, we will be meeting with him to discuss traffic and transport issues in the state,” he said. The Director of Vehicle Inspection Services, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Akin-George Fashola, who spoke to members of the institute on behalf of the Commissioner, Dr Frédéric Oladeinde, said the state government was working on addressing gridlock in the state and would continue to welcome collaborations. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 