Mudiaga Affe The Chairman of the Lagos State chapter  of the Cherubim and Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, Dr Joseph Adagba, has decried the security challenges facing the country. Adagba, who praised   the government  for making efforts  to address the situation, urged Nigerians to be cautious and vigilant when travelling. He spoke during the sixth annual general conference and thanksgiving of the church  at the Praying Band of the C & S Church in Mushin, Lagos. Adagba said, “To travel from one city, town or village to another has become a nightmare, even in daytime. No one trusts another person no matter how close they are. But what we who are called by God’s name should do is to wash our hands, minds, and body clean and then pray to God to heal our land – 2 Chronicle 7:14-16.” The cleric  called on churches to encourage their  members to obey the laws of the land. He said, “Any church worth its salt must encourage its members to adhere to the rule of law. Agreed, the level of insecurity is high but we believe that the measures being taken by the government to address the challenges are yielding positive results. “However, we will  continue to encourage our people to seek God first instead of worldly things like money. In terms of kidnapping, we urge our members to be careful, especially travelling on the road at night, it is not safe.” A principal guest of honour on the occasion, Rev Abimbola Ajayi, however, said women had critical roles to play by teaching their children the right path to follow. She  said, “Mothers are the highest universities anywhere in the world and they have an amazing role to play in nurturing society for good. Apart from the fact that all the children in the world are born from our wombs, we are their first teachers before they come in contact with any other teacher.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   