AS the battle to contain the unprecedented onslaught of bloodthirsty bandits rages in the North, questions still linger over the manner of Nigeria’s response to the insecurity crisis of the magnitude currently playing out in that part of the country, especially the threat posed by cross-border banditry. In particular, concerns have been raised about the porous nature of the borders that allows criminals to saunter in and out of the country, virtually unchallenged. Even in the few instances where they are arrested, people are still not sure what happens thereafter. These posers become more compelling after some suspected criminals, many of them in military fatigues, were paraded in Abuja recently. Numbering 81 with alleged offences ranging from armed robbery to kidnapping and cattle rustling, they were mostly foreigners from Nigeria’s northern neighbours. They paraded an armoury that would be the envy of many military outfits – an admixture of AK-47 rifles, grenade launchers, even locally-manufactured guns and several rounds of ammunition. It is little wonder that the police are usually no match for them. Also on display was N10 million cash, part of the ransom they had been collecting from their abducted victims. Hardly a day passes without news of bandits sacking villages and taking people into custody, until ransoms are paid for their release. The choice of victims ranges from village heads to ordinary farmers. In some cases, paying ransom may not guarantee the return of a victim alive. According to the Nigeria Security Tracker, produced by the Washington-based Council on Foreign Relations, 262 civilian deaths were recorded by April this year, compared to the 288 for the whole of last year and the 52 deaths recorded in 2017. This is a worrying trend attributable, in the main, to banditry. Aside from sabotaging the Nigerian economy, unmanned borders allow criminals in from countries such as Chad, Niger and Cameroon, with a mission to pillage and kill before beating a quick retreat to their countries. In a confession that would tug at the heartstrings, one of the criminals narrated how they dragged a woman out of the car and took turns in raping her in the presence of her husband, children and mother-in-law. The same criminal explained that, although he was a farmer, he decided to combine farming with armed robbery, perhaps to maximise his profits. Despite the danger posed by cross-border banditry, the country has failed to come to grips with the very important issue of border policing, especially in the northern parts where the foreigners are taken as their kith and kin. No serious country throws its borders open to all and sundry the way Nigeria does. How did the people paraded by the police come into the country without anybody stopping and deporting them? Reports have it that, sometimes, they launch an invasion in long and noisy motorcycle convoys, carrying two heavily armed bandits on each and firing their guns as they pass through villages. That the country has very long borders stretching for thousands of kilometres should not be an excuse. After all, countries such as the United States, Russia and China also boast even longer borders that are well-policed. In fact, Donald Trump has been waging an unceasing battle with the US Congress and neighbouring Mexico over his determination to ensure that unwanted immigrants are kept away from the borders. He even toyed with the idea of adding alligator-infested moat to his pet project of building a wall to keep away immigrants whom he blames for every ill in his country. With the advancement in technology and aerial surveillance, unwanted immigrants can be kept away. It does not require the physical presence of security agents lining the entire length of the borders. Not infrequently, stories and photographs are published of the arrest of bandits with their mass of sophisticated weapons. But, afterwards, nothing is heard about the weapons. In a country reputed to be home to more than 70 per cent of the illicit small arms and light weapons in West Africa, any arms seizure as is commonly done should be publicly destroyed. In 2016, the Kenyan authorities set fire on 5,250 firearms to discourage the circulation of illegal weapons in that country. Besides, and very importantly, the Nigerian authorities have to invoke the laws to deal with criminality. In 2015, when Boko Haram first made incursions into Chad in twin attacks in the capital, N’Djamena, that claimed 38 lives, the country quickly put those arrested on trial. After finding them guilty, 10 terrorists faced the firing squad. The terrorists had targeted a school and a police building, leaving more than 100 wounded in addition to the dead. Nigeria could also achieve a lot by prompt prosecution and working in close collaboration with her neighbours. If the police can take the pains to parade the criminals, then they should go a step further to diligently prosecute them under the Nigerian laws. Doing so will serve as a deterrent to many others. Although this is not to say that the criminals are not being prosecuted, the authorities owe it to Nigerians to make their prosecution public so as to banish the unfounded belief by some people that they are usually set free, asked to go and sin no more. Trying and sentencing bandits who commit atrocities will also free the country from the criticism of the human rights groups who are always finding faults with the way detainees are treated in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 