Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Thursday urged Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, Senator Biodun Olujimi, who was declared winner of the Ekiti South senatorial seat by the Appeal Court on Wednesday to be magnanimous in victory and prioritise the interest of Ekiti. The Appeal Court upheld the verdict of the Elections Petitions Tribunal which declared that the All Progressives Congress candidate, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, should vacate the National Assembly seat for Olujimi, who was the validly elected senator. Fayemi’s Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, said in a statement, “While congratulating Senator Abiodun Olujimi for the victory, Governor Fayemi also urged her to be magnanimous in victory and ensure that Ekiti interest is paramount in her agenda at the Senate.” The governor described the judgment as “painful, shocking and unexpected. The court’s ruling notwithstanding, Senator Adeyeye remains a credible politician with huge democratic credentials. While many may see this as a temporary setback, I urge him to brace up and see it as part of the sacrifice for the growth of democracy in the country. READ ALSO: Gov election: Police to deploy 32,000 personnel to Bayelsa “I am convinced that Senator Adeyeye will bounce back, in view of the pride of place he occupies in the hearts of his people,” the governor said. This was as Olujimi described her victory at the court as “A mixed feeling of relief and unbelief,” saying, “I’m yet to fully grasp the import of God’s mercy and compassion. Let me state that the exercise was a great journey of soul searching and a great effort to unravel the mysteries surrounding the last senatorial elections in Ekiti.” The former Senate minority leader, in a statement in Ado Ekiti, said, “For me, it was sheer grace, uncommon grace that spoke for me and I will never take it for granted. Let me salute the courage and tenacity of Prince Dayo Adeyeye, my brother, my friend and my opponent in this struggle! He gave me a reason to put on my thinking cap, be on my toes. He gave me a strong reason to pursue my conviction with decency. “Let me say, that I know how it feels to be in his situation, but I ask that he will understand that democracy is a bitter-sweet system which we all submitted to. I wish him luck as he moves on to plan for the future and ask that he doesn’t jettison the zeal to assist and give back to his constituency. “We must work to make our constituents better. I will be willing to work with him on projects that will enhance the development of Ekiti South. Politics must bind rather than separate us,” Olujimi stated.