…as court admits alleged fraudster to N100m bail Oladimeji Ramon The N32.9bn fraud trial of Internet celebrity, Ismaila Mustapha, alias Mompha, before the Federal High Court in Lagos commenced on Friday with three witnesses testifying against him. Mompha is facing 14 counts bordering on fraud, money laundering and running a foreign exchange business without the authorisation of the Central Bank of Nigeria. He was arraigned on Monday alongside a firm, Ismalob Global Investment Limited. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission accused Mompha of procuring Ismalob Global Investment Limited and retaining in its bank account an aggregate of N32.9bn between 2015 and 2018. At the opening of the trial on Friday, a compliance officer with Fidelity Bank, Peter Adegoke, who testified as the second prosecution witness, told Justice Mohammed Liman that Ismalob Global Investment Limited had a bank account domiciled in Fidelity Bank. Adegoke said Mompha was the sole signatory to the naira account. Reading from the firm’s statement of account, Adegoke, who was led in evidence by the EFCC lawyer, Mr Rotimi Oyedepo, told the court that between 2015 and October 2019, there was a total inflow of N18.5bn into the account, while a total of about N18bn moved out within the same period. He said the account had a balance of N598,000. Under cross-examination by the defence counsel, Mr Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), Adegoke affirmed that his bank would not involve itself in anything unlawful. Earlier, a CBN official, Mrs Anne Ezekannagha, who testified as the first prosecution witness, told the court that the CBN had no record of licensing Ismalob Global Investment Limited as a Bureau de Change operator. She said for the CBN to license a firm as a BDC operator, such a firm must show evidence of incorporation as a limited liability company by the Corporate Affairs Commission. A Benin City-based BDC operator, Ikenna Okafor, who testified as the third prosecution witness, told the court that he did business with Ismalob Global Investment Limited through “one of its directors, Alhaji Ahmadu Mohammed.” Justice Liman adjourned further proceedings till January 8, 2020. Meanwhile, the judge admitted Mompha to bail in the sum of N100m with one surety who must be a landed property owner. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com