Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Police Command, on Tuesday, said it had commenced investigation into the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of a one-year-old boy, Gold Kolawole, at a popular church in Akure. This came after an 85-year-old woman went missing at a branch of the Deeper Life Bible Church’s campground in Akure. It was gathered that the mother of the missing boy took him to the So titobi re Praise Chapel on Sunday but after the service, he was nowhere to be found. READ ALSO: Strange woman disappears with two kids in Rivers The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident, said the personnel of the command had already swung into action to ensure that Gold was found. He stated, “Initially, the matter was not reported to us, but the pastor of the church later came to the police station to report that the father of the missing boy invaded the church with some thugs and destroyed its property. “It was then that we were informed that the boy was missing. But we have commenced action on how to rescue the boy and reunite him with his parents.” The mother of the missing boy, Mrs Modupe Kolawole, said she was surprised that her child disappeared from a church where people went to worship God. She stated, “On Sunday, we went to the church and I took him to the children’s department. On getting there, I registered him. After about an hour, I went to check on him and I saw him holding puff-puff and I asked one of the Sunday school teachers, who told me that it was the church that gave the children the puff-puff. So I left them. “After the service, I went there to pick my child and I could not find him. I asked the teachers and they said maybe someone took him out and I asked them why they would allow someone to take another person’s child out. Up till now, we have not found him.” Modupe appealed to security agencies in the state to assist the family to find the boy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 