Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The police on Wednesday arrested the Chairman of the National Conscience Party in Katsina State, Abulmumini Sani. Shehu Sani told The PUNCH at the headquarters of Katsina State Police Command on Thursday that he was arrested in connection with the press conference he held on Sunday, where he called for the investigation of the Katsina State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal’s verdict. “My detention is in connection with that press conference I called,” he said during a brief encounter with him at the police headquarters. A senior police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the NCP chairman might likely be arraigned in court later in the day. The officer refused to disclose the reason for the detention and the court where he would be arraigned. The officer said “We shall arraign him based on the statement he would make to us but definitely we are arraigning him before a competent court today (Thursday).” The state Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba, and the spokesman, Gambo Isah, were out of the state to Yenagoa and Abuja respectively on official assignments while efforts to reach them on phone proved abortive. The Punch recalls that the NCP Chairman had on Sunday at a press conference in Katsina, called for a high level investigation into circumstances surrounding last September’s verdict of the state governorship election tribunal, which validated the election of Governor Aminu Masari of the All Progressives Congress. Shehu Sanni alleged that some members of the tribunal might have compromised themselves before the verdict was given. He declared, “I hereby call on the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; the Chief Justice of the Federation; the President of the courts of Appeal; the Inspector General of the police; the National Director, Department of State Service; the Economic and Financial Crime Commission; the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, the Attorney General of the Federation, to as a matter of urgency, investigate this high level corruption.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    