Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Twenty-six kidnap suspects have been arrested in different parts of the Federal Capital Territory by the operatives of the joint counter-kidnapping operation involving the police, the military and other security agencies tagged: Operation Sharan Daji. Their arrest followed the abduction of over 20 victims from Asokoro, Wuse, Kuje, Kwali and other parts of the FCT in the past two months. The suspects, including one Juri Abubakar, who allegedly supplied foodstuffs to a kidnap gang, and a 40-year-old man, Usman Abdullahi, are believed to be part of different kidnap syndicates operating in the Kuje, Rubochi, Kwali and Abaji areas. Parading the suspects in Abuja on Wednesday, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, said four locally-fabricated firearms, a Dane gun with 10-round cylinder loader, four cartridges, three cutlasses, three face masks, 24 wraps of substance suspected to be marijuana, several identity cards and charms were recovered from them. Ciroma said, “Acting on a tip-off, police operatives attached to the Gwagwalada Area Command arrested one Juri Abubakar, 30, a member of a kidnap syndicate at Yangoji. “The suspect stated that he supplied food to other members of the syndicate, who threatened to kill their victim. The prompt intervention of police operatives led to the apprehension of the suspects before the ransom could be delivered. “Concerted efforts are being made to arrest Ibrahim, Usman, Dahiru, Jayah, Saidu and Awalu, all members of the syndicate. The suspects will be arraigned after investigation.” The police also arrested Zaharadeen Abubakar, 23; Hamza Garba; Usman Ibrahim, 25; Jubril Yusuf, 24; and Ismail Tijani, 20, who is a student of the University of Abuja, for conniving and threatening to kidnap their victim. The suspects allegedly demanded N500,000 from the victim before they were apprehended by the police. Exhibits recovered from them, according to the CP, are three cutlasses, a Samsung phone, a SIM card and knife. Tijani, an agric education student of the University of Abuja, explained that he got involved in the attempted kidnap through one of his neighbours, Jubril. He said, “I complained to Jubril that I didn’t have money for my tuition and school project. He said that he would introduce me to one of his customers, an Ibo businessman, who gives girls money. “He said I should just mobilise some guys to instil fear in the man and force him to part with some money. I contacted some of the guys staying in my area and we swung into action. We told him to pay N500,000 or his wife would be kidnapped and he would be made to pay N10m ransom.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  