Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja Gunshot allegedly fired from a helicopter during the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State was said to have injured a 23-year-old woman, Deborah Omoba. Omoba was said to be sleeping in her room inside the mission house of The Apostolic Church, Ajara, Lokoja on the election day when she was hit by bullet fired from the helicopter. The church’s Associate Pastor, Abraham Olusegun, told journalists on the church premises on Wednesday that the bullet was still lodged in the upper region of Omoba’s private parts. Recall that no fewer than four people were reportedly killed when the helicopter allegedly released some gunshots and teargas on voters in some areas during the election. The pastor said, “The victim is a daughter of one of the church’s clerics; she was observing her siesta on the day when she screamed from her sleep.” He said when they rushed into the room, they found the girl in a pool of blood. Olusegun, who said the victim was rushed to the Federal Medical Centre, Lokoja, added that the church was attacked during the last general elections. Our correspondent later visited the medical centre’s female surgical ward where the victim was admitted. She, however, was unable to narrate her experience to our correspondent. The centre’s Head of Clinical Services, Dr Taiwo Jones, said the bullet was lodged at a sensitive part of the victim’s body which makes its extraction difficult. He said whenever a bullet was lodged at a sensitive area of the body that could cause more damage, the best thing to do was to leave it for some time and allow the body system to react and push the bullet to the surface where it would be easier to be removed by surgery. He however said the victim was now in a stable condition. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Busari, said he was not aware that any helicopter released gunshots or tear gas on the election day. He said, “How can it happen when we are not in a war situation? Besides, no one has reported any incident of gunshots from any helicopter on election day or any other day for that matter. “The helicopter you saw that day was mainly for surveillance and had no directive to fire any shot.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   