Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa on Thursday ruled that the All Progressives Congress did not have a candidate for the Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State. The presiding judge, Justice Jane Inyang delivered the judgment in a case filed by one of the six aspirants of the APC, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri. Lokpobiri, who is the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, had approached the court to challenge the outcome of the party’s primary conducted on September 4. The exercise produced David Lyon as the governorship candidate of the APC. But Justice Inyang in the judgment nullified the primary election. She said the primary poll was conducted arbitrarily and in contravention of the party’s rules. Justice Inyang also gave an order restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission from listing Lyon on the ballot paper. She said, “It has been established by judicial authorities and several judgements that political parties are bound by their own rules. The committee that conducted the primaries threw caution to the winds and it is my ruling that the primaries stands nullified. “The result announced by Senator Emmanuel Ochega is not valid as he is not the returning officer for the election, and I make an order restraining INEC from recognising any of the aspirants that participated in the said primaries.” APC rejects judgment Briefing journalists at the Nigeria Union of Journalists Press Centre, the alternate Director-General of the APC Governorship Campaign Council, Prof. Seiyefa Brisibe, alleged that the judgment was procured. He said, “The party will appeal the ruling. The legal team of the APC has been briefed and they are filing the processes to secure a stay of execution of the ruling.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 