Patrick Odey, Uyo The Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base, Ibaka, in the Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, has announced the seizure of 3,378 bags of smuggled rice estimated at N57.4m and arrested 54 suspects in October. Southern City News gathered that 14 wooden boats used for smuggling were also seized during the period. The FOB Commanding Officer, Capt. Peter Yilme, said these at Ibaka on Wednesday while handing over eight suspects 389 and 261 bags of smuggled rice seized in two separate operations to the Nigeria Customs Service. Yilme, who was represented by the Base Operations Officer, Lieutenant Commander Kabiru Yusuf, said the suspects were arrested on October 27 and 29 on the Parrot Island and Effiat waterways by naval gunboats. He said the command was determined to reduce the illegal trade in Nigeria waterways, adding it would not relent in its determination to track down smugglers, who refuse to heed the Federal Government’s directives against the importation and smuggling of foreign rice Yilme stated, “The Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base, Ibaka, hereby hands over two medium-sized wooden boats laden with 389 and 261 bags of rice arrested on Parrot Island to the Nigeria Customs Service. “The wooden boats, along with its eight crew members, were arrested around 3.45am and 2.30am on October 27 and 29, 2019, during a routine patrol by navy boats.” The Deputy Superintendent of Customs, Alabi Adedokun, while receiving the suspects and the smuggled items, commended the navy for the cooperation existing between it and the NCS, leading to the frequent arrest of smugglers. “On behalf of the Nigeria Customs Service, I, Alabi Adedokun, take over the eight suspects and 650 bags of foreign parboiled rice. On behalf of the Nigeria Customs Service, we thank you very much,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 