Afeez Hanafi A private security outfit, Hogan Guards Limited, has absolved itself of negligence over a fraud that occurred inside the banking hall of Fidelity Bank branch at Lagos Trade Fair Market. The outfit said it was not aware the incident happened at the bank which it provided security for, until it was published in Saturday PUNCH. Our correspondent had reported that a businessman who sells wristwatch at the market, Taiwo Adebari, had sent his 18-year-old son, Sefiu, to deposit a sum of N645, 000 at the bank on August 21, 2019. While Sefiu was helping an elderly man at the banking hall to fill his teller, a young man who disguised as an official of the bank, approached him and offered to help him deposit the money. It later dawned on Sefiu that he had been defrauded as he did not see the man again. The case was reported to the police and the recording of the bank’s closed circuit camera capturing the incident was obtained. While Sefiu was blamed by the police for being carefree, the bank was reprimanded for lax security measures and reportedly to refund half of the money. But an official of the bank insisted that the financial institution was not complicit in the incident, adding that the security men at the bank contracted from Hogan Guards were to blame. A mail sent to the security outfit, requesting its comment on the alleged fraud was not replied to as of the time of the first publication However, the security firm in a letter by its Media Consultant, Sanya Onayoade, said the incident did not warrant reference to Hogan Guards. It read in part, “For the avoidance of doubt, there are procedures to follow when there is an established breach of security or fraudulent activity in any bank that Hogan Guards Limited offers security guard. Part of that is notification of our company by the bank. There was no such notification in this particular incident, and understandably so since it was purely a negligence of the customer. “All banks have notices warning customers to always follow transactions procedures and never to patronise non-bank staff. Second, banking halls are public places and Hogan Guards operatives are not engaged to interfere in private discussions between two or more people. Simply put, neither the customer nor the bank (with the CCTV video preview) made any allegation against the security operative. “Hogan Guards Limited has built a sterling reputation for decades, with several awards and recognitions. Recently, a security operative of the company attached to ECOBANK Wuse Zone 4 branch in Abuja, displayed a rare sense of integrity and trustworthiness when he discovered and returned a bag containing the sum of $10,000 left behind by a bank customer. He handed over the money to the bank’s branch manager who later returned it over to the surprised but appreciative owner.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 