Success Nwogu, Abuja The Zonal Chairman, Kogi West of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr Kola Ojo, on Monday, said the party will be victorious in the senatorial district supplementary election scheduled for November 30. He called on the party members to come out en masse to vote during the election. He spoke during a media briefing in Abuja. He faulted the November 16 elections, which he said were fraught with electoral irregularities such as rigging, thuggery and violence. READ ALSO: N32.9bn alleged scam: Court remands Mompha in prison He  said, “In view of the aforementioned, and without prejudice to the steps to be taken by the PDP to seek appropriate legal and constitutional redress, all members of the party in the areas where supplementary elections have been ordered by Independent National Electoral Commission and the additional units we are canvassing for inclusion, are enjoined to remain resolute, committed and determined in ensuring the victory of the party by massively coming out to vote for the PDP in the said supplementary elections.” According to him, members of the PDP in Kogi West Senatorial District are resolutely committed to the return of  Senator Dino Melaye. He stated that Melaye has proved his mettle in the upper chamber of the Senate. He enjoined the Independent National Electoral Commission to as a matter of urgency, include all the areas that witnessed ballot box snatching, intimidation, aggression and gunshots in the supplementary election. He said the observed irregularities rendered the collation of election results from such areas spurious, untenable and unacceptable. According to him, failure to include the areas will be tantamount to legitimising the alleged fraud that took place during the November 16, elections. Ojo also called on the INEC to put in place adequate, effective and responsive security measures that will engender an atmosphere devoid of fear, intimidation, aggression and other negative tendencies before, during and after the supplementary elections.