Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Government  said it had taken over the management of 28 community schools and absorbed their 577 teachers into its teaching service. The government however chided the past administration of Ibikunle Amosun for allegedly neglecting the schools during its eight-year tenure. The Chief Press Secretary to the state governor , Kunle Somorin,  disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. Somorin said the state government took the decision because most of the community schools were insolvent. The statement quoted the Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary, Secondary and Vocational Education,  Mrs Aderonke Soyombo,  as saying that the action was taken in the interest of  the children that would be affected if they were not absorbed. Soyombo said, “The number of children to be affected if the absorption was not done would have risen to over 9,000. The schools were passed unto us. The last dispensation didn’t take them over; they didn’t absorb them.  What we did was to absorb them. “What we looked at was the number of children that will suffer and the children  that are  going to suffer are almost 9,000 but instead of leaving those children to suffer, we will rather take them in and empower those schools.” Soyombo, however, lamented the situation where some schools had no principal and vice-principal for over two years. She also lamented that a teacher was teaching about 209 pupils in a class, adding  that such would not be allowed to happen under the Dapo Abiodun-led administration. Speaking further, she disclosed that  the state government had taken an audit of all schools in the state, including the absorbed 28 community schools, with a  view to  having a clear data of schools in the state. Soyombo assured the people that the absorption of the 577 teachers would not affect the current recruitment of 1,500 teachers into the state schools. She added, “ It is a separate exercise; they gave us data when we came.There was no way we could run with the data because it was not clear on the areas where we would need teachers. “The finding from our audit is that the distribution of teachers in Ogun State is very lopsided: we had too many teachers in some schools, while some schools were quite understaffed; so, the audit helped us a lot to solve a lot of issues.” Soyombo also disclosed that the state government had identified about 10 rural areas across the three senatorial districts of the state where schools had serious structural and teaching needs. She said it was discovered that areas such as Imeko-Afon, Ipokia, Yewa North, Yewa South, Ijebu North and Ogun Waterside were the worst affected. She promised that in the next few months, schools in these LGAs would have a new lease of life. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  