Matthew Ochei, Asaba The Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Delta State chapter, Mr Richard Asenime has described the importation of frozen poultry products by Nigerians as madness. Asenime, who stated this on Monday in Asaba while applauding the Federal Government’s ban of importation of rice and other items. He said it was a waste of foreign exchange, misdirected demand and expenditure for Nigerians to continue to import frozen chickens. He said, “We don’t need to import poultry products in Nigeria. I watch how the customs confiscate, destroy and bury cartons of imported poultry products. READ ALSO: Court grants Maina N1bn bail “I wonder how long these have been in transit and if they have not outlived their usefulness before been dumped in Nigeria. “And I say it is madness. Why are we importing poultry? It is simple and cheap to produce; anybody or household can produce, process, package and freeze depending on the quantity using a deep freezer.” The AFAN boss noted that farmers in the state would be engaging in dry season farming and have selected three crops; rice, maize and vegetable for the period. He said that the association had made demands on the government to assist farmers with irrigation facilities and other inputs, expressing hope that their demand would be met. “With the dry season here, it is expected that the ministry will flag-off the activity because we told them that some of our farmers will be engaging in dry season rice, vegetable and maize farming. “Our farmers should be patient. They can do their own individual farms but as soon as the government approves our proposals, we shall group them into clusters at various locations to cultivate rice, maize and vegetables.” “Today, rice farming has received a boost. We now have off-takers who help to clear the produce and process them for consumption; all these and more are making rice farmers happy now. “The local rice is everywhere but we need a little fine-tuning to make it better and with government support, production will increase and the pricing will definitely be accommodating when the rice market is stabilised” he stressed.