Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Katsina State Government on Wednesday declared a state of emergency on Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) and open defecation in the state. Governor Aminu  Masari said this  at a press conference in Katsina. He said the declaration was to check high prevalence of water-borne diseases in the state especially in the rural areas. Masari said, “There is the need for a strategic plan and implementation framework to address the declining water sanitation and hygiene service delivery in the state. Consequently, I hereby declare a state of emergency on the WASH sector and campaign against open defecation in the state.” The governor revealed that the state government in collaboration with UNICEF and other donor agencies had constructed over 3,500 boreholes and about 400 latrines in communities, schools, hospitals and markets across the 34 local government areas of the state. “The above highlighted achievements recorded in the WASH sector in the state are not enough to categorically say that we achieved the desired result considering the population growth,” he noted. Masari directed the state Ministry of Water Resources to establish an inter-ministerial steering committee on WASH. The committee, he said, would be under his chairmanship. He also called on relevant MDAs to launch sector reform policy through the adoption of state level action plan and participate in accessing the national WASH fund at the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. Masari also revealed that the Zobe Water Supply Scheme phase one was at 90 per cent completion, assuring the people that when completed, it would boost water supply in Katsina metropolis and its environs. He said, “The phase 1B of the project, when completed will supply treated water from Dutsinma hill through Karofi, Kafin Soli, Kankia and Charanchi. Already the government has commenced discussions with relevant stakeholders on how to raise fund for the completion of the project.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   