Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo A member of the Oodua Peoples Congress in Osun State, Fatai Adegboye, from the Atelebo compound, Ipetumodu, died on Sunday after he was reportedly beaten with a charmed ring during a fight. During the clashes that followed the incident, four people were said to have been wounded. Sources in Ipetumodu told our correspondent that Emmanuel Oyejide, a night guard, had accused Adegboye of having an amorous affair with his wife, simply identified as Iya Ibeji. Oyejide, it was learnt, led some men believed to be fellow night guards to the residence of the deceased around 2:30am on Sunday and confronted him with the allegation. Adegboye, it was gathered, denied the allegation but his accusers were said to have insisted that he committed the act. During the fight that ensued, Oyejide reportedly beat Adegboye with a ring and he allegedly slumped and died on the spot. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said neighbours of the deceased had attempted to resolve the misunderstanding, but they were warned to stay away by one of the guards, who accompanied Oyejide to the scene of the incident. He added, “After the deceased slumped, some residents of the area, who were pleading with the parties not to fight, were caught in the middle of the melee that followed the incident. “Stones and sticks hit some of them. There were also attempts to kill the perpetrator of the crime by the friends of the deceased. Four persons were injured and received treatment as a result of the injuries they sustained.” [READ ALSO] Border closure: Benin, Niger haven’t met our conditions – FG When contacted, the acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mustafa Katayeyanjue, said the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Ige, had directed full investigation into the matter. He confirmed that 40-year-old Adegboye was allegedly killed by Oyejide. He said, “The two men engaged themselves in fisticuffs over a misunderstanding, which eventually resulted in the death of the victim. “The remains of the deceased have been deposited in a morgue for autopsy. The CP has directed full investigation into the matter.” Katayeyanjue added that the main suspect had been arrested and was being detained at the State Criminal Investigation Department. READ ALSO: Man fakes own kidnap, defrauds US-based mistress of N821,000  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 