The embattled Chairman of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Anslem Ojezua, who was ‘suspended’ by a faction of the party alongside Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, in this interview with SOLA SHITTU alleges that the party’s National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, is responsible for the crisis in the party, among other issues How did you receive the news of your suspension by the executive council, with 11 out of 16 members signing the document for your removal? You know there had been a build-up of ongoing activities over time and the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, has been using some people to destabilise the party in Edo State just to distract the Governor (Godwin Obaseki) and give the impression that the governor is at loggerheads with the party. All the attempts they made have failed and so they believe that I am the one standing in-between them and their objectives. The former state secretary of the party, Lawrence Okah, said Oshiomhole gave him money to come to Edo State to buy some of my colleagues. Two of them were the ones who came to leak the plot. The first thing I need to say is that the State Working Committee or any working committee for that matter does not have any power to carry out any exercise relating to discipline by the tenets of our constitution. So, neither the State Working Committee nor the National Working Committee can make a pronouncement on this matter. The proper organ in a position to deal with it is the State Executive Committee, the Zonal Executive Committee, and the National Executive Committee. It has to be the executive committees and the national chairman knows this. He is now using all these boys to actualise his goal, but it will fail. It has already failed because as soon as I got wind of it, I called my colleagues in the State Executive Committee which include the party chairmen at the local government level and out of the 18 local government chairmen, 15 are with us. Faction is forbidden and the constitution says it expressly. That is what the national chairman has unleashed on his party in his state, unfortunately without counting the losses. You have been with Lawrence Okah for some time, why did it take you long to know he is romancing with the Edo Peoples Movement? It didn’t take so long. This journey did not start today. When we started the journey even the comrade (Adams Oshiomhole) came to meet us on this journey. We started this journey in 2003, we were all in the Peoples Democratic Party and we were resisting having godfathers in PDP. We started by organising the Grace Group. Lawrence Okah was one of us, comrade came to meet us in 2006 after he attempted to join the All Peoples Party, it didn’t work. He brought the Labour Party, it died on arrival and by the benevolence of Lucky Igbinedion, who was the governor at the time, Oshiomhole became our candidate and we rallied round him. Do you mean the PDP? You know we left PDP. In fact, during that period we formed the Grace Group we were then deregistered from the PDP by the leadership of the party and so we were the ones who formed the ADC in Edo State. When comrade came, we had a meeting with him with the late Senator Albert Legojie and their position was that we should just go to the APP but we said the APP did not exist in Edo State, it would not fly, he saw the futility of the action, he went back to Lagos and brought the Labour Party. He did a public show but right there on the day he launched it, he got to know this one was dead on arrival. It was then he approached the then-governor Igbinedion, who then introduced him to us and we took him from there. So, when you talk about people helping people, let them start the story from the beginning. There is one man they call Chief Lucky James, he is still alive. He was the first person to mention comrade’s name in our meeting and everybody would laugh at that time. Why, because the comrade was not a politician, he was just a trade unionist and when he came for the first three years of his administration he kept saying he was not a politician he was a trade unionist and that he had only come to work for Edo people. He has worked for Edo and has done well. He should face his front and let others do their bit. But the EPM also alleged that there is the Obaseki Shaibu Movement in the party… Those people are either mischievous or ignorant. The Obaseki Shaibu Movement is dedicated to prominent members of the party who have political aspirations. President Buhari has over 1,000 support groups dedicated to his re-election. Some of them were members of the party and some were not but they were dedicated to President Muhammadu Buhari and the party embraced them because these are the groups that will help to straighten the party. But EPM, to whom are they dedicated? Is the national chairman contesting? The answer is no. So, their objective is to destabilise the polity in Edo State. Don’t you think this gale of suspensions is heating the polity and might affect the fortune of the party as we move closer to 2020? It is the national chairman that is heating the polity. All the things you see happening now are the fruits of the seed of what he sowed in Edo State and if he is not careful, he will be the sole beneficiary. Everything will end up on him and I hope he has the neck to bear the load because whatever you sow, so shall you reap. So, what do you think is the way out now? The way out is for the national chairman to retrace his steps and come back to the realm of honour. That is the way out. He should subject his interest to the collective interest of our people both as a state and as a party. Once he does that everything will fall into places. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  