Eniola Akinkuotu,  Olufemi Atoyebi and  Jesusegun Alagbe The All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and Afenifere chieftains, Chief Ayo Adebanjo and Senator Femi Okurounmu, have described as unfortunate the news of the death of Dr Ore Falomo, a former Medical Director, Maryland Specialist Hospital, and personal physician to the late MKO Abiola. Falomo died in the wee hours of Saturday after an illness. He was one of the few persons who had access to the late Abiola during his four-year detention by the late military dictator, General Sani Abacha’s, regime. Reacting to the physician’s death, Tinubu said Falomo identified with the struggle for a better Nigeria even though he was not a politician. In a statement by the APC leader’s media office on Saturday in Abuja, Tinubu said, “I knew Dr Ore Falomo very well as a physician and an activist. Though he was the late Bashorun MKO’s personal physician, he was part of the struggle for the revalidation of June 12. “He was no politician but he identified with us. He identified with our agitation for a better and progressive Nigeria. He was one of us. He participated in Abiola’s political struggles and also felt his pains. He was one of those who saw Abiola last, some two weeks to his eventual death.” Tinubu said Falomo’s death was a loss to the country, to the medical profession and to the “progressives family.” Similarly, Adebanjo described Falomo as one of those loyal to the struggle for democracy, a nationalist and patriot to the core. “He was somebody who practised what he believed in. He was a progressive and he fought for democratic ideals,” he said. READ ALSO: US didn’t deny Fayemi visa, gov withdrew passport –Governors’ Forum Also, Okurounmu said Falomo was a courageous fighter and not just a medical practitioner who pursued what he believed in. “He remained loyal to Abiola till the very end. I pray he rests in peace like the valiant patriot and courageous fighter that he was,” he said. The Nigerian Medical Association also on Saturday described Falomo’s death as a colossal loss. In an interview with one of our correspondents in Abuja, the NMA President, Dr Francis Faduyile, said it would be difficult to replace Falomo, who was a former Vice Chairman of the Lagos branch of the NMA, in the association. Faduyile said, “The death of Papa Falomo is an exit of a staunch member of our association. He was a vibrant member who made benchmark achievements in the profession. “He was an elder to consult if you wanted to get the right direction in the profession. He was an activist and philanthropist, a loveable person in the medical family and will be greatly missed.” Meanwhile, Afenifere spokesperson, Mr Yinka Odumakin, who confirmed Falomo’s death, said the group would issue a statement soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 