Samson Folarin The Lagos State Drivers’ Institute says over 30,000 drivers have been trained from January to November 2019 to reduce road crashes and manage traffic in the state. The acting General Manager of the agency, Mrs Afusat Tiamiyu, added that about 200 drivers apprehended for violating traffic laws in the state were also retrained within the period. Tiamiyu spoke at a public enlightenment campaign tagged, ‘Unlocking Traffic Gridlock through Drivers’ Education’ at Tipper Garage, Ojota. A statement on Tuesday said the campaign, which was attended by over 500 tipper drivers, would go round other motor parks in Lagos. The LASDRI boss said the campaign was to make better drivers of the men. “We want zero tolerance for accidents, especially during this festive period. Accidents don’t just happen; they are caused mostly by drivers. That is why we have brought our services to them to let them know that the Lagos State Government values their lives and has passion for safety of lives and property,” Tiamiyu said. She urged motorists and commercial drivers in the state to desist from overloading, drunk driving, use of cell phones while driving, non-use of seatbelts, speeding, traffic lights/sign violation, lane indiscipline, use of worn-out tyres and underage driving, to avoid being prosecuted. “As the roads are important to our daily lives, their (drivers) quality or lack of it thereof determines when and how we get to our destinations, which ultimately has effect on the efficiency of our economy. “If time is money, then efficiency on our roads means less time is spent in travelling, and that time becomes available for us to do other important things. “It means less fuel is burnt in travelling, money is saved for other things, improved quality of life, more time for the family and money to spend on them from savings made from efficient transportation,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  