Nigerians have called on the government and police authorities to take care of the family of the policeman, Michael Dominic, who died when a concrete slab crushed him at the scene of the fire in Balogun Market, where he had been controlling the crowd on Tuesday. Speaking with The PUNCH, Sergeant Dominic’s widow, Rose lamented the death of her husband and expressed her fears about the future of their children. Mrs Dominic said, “I want the government to help me with my children’s education. I don’t have any means; I depended on my husband alone. I don’t know how their future will look like without their father. I don’t know what to do. I don’t know if I can survive without my husband; even the children’s school fees, we have not paid it.” Reacting to her plight, Nigerians have added their voices to the call for the intervention of government in order to ease the burden of the deceased’s family. READ ALSO: I’m afraid for our children’s future – Wife of policeman killed in Balogun Market fire Commenting on Facebook, Babs Bello said, “He died a hero, R.I.P. I hope the government would care for his family so that officers can work effectively without looking back at what becomes of their families in case they lose their lives in the cause of saving others.” A Twitter user, Olarinde Olufemi, said,  “When the breadwinner is gone, what’s the fate of the family? How will they survive? Our government should endeavour not to forsake the families of security operatives who die in active service. The children should be sponsored and their DIC benefits paid to their families ASAP.” Apart from calling on government and police to assist Sergeant Dominic’s family, Facebook user, simply identified as Jimi said that the owner of the building should be made to pay compensation to the Dominics. He said, “Owner should be forced to pay compensation to the dead police officer if he/she had no insurance. The police officer’s death was caused by the fire in the building so the owner/insurance company should compensate the officer. Lagos state government can compensate the police officer’s family and then sue the owner/insurance company for reimbursement. Such a case will highlight the importance of having fire insurance or bearing the consequences of any fire.”