Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja A part-time examiner at The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Olanrewaju Kayode, has been jailed for 20 years by Justice Joyce Abdulmalik of the Federal High Court sitting in Ibadan after being found guilty of collecting financial gratification to help students get higher scores. Kayode was arraigned by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences commission on five counts bordering on examination malpractices. The spokesperson for the commission, Rasheedat Okoduwa, said in a statement that Justice Abdulmalik found the convict guilty of all the charges preferred against him. [READ ALSO] Sowore: FG only obeys foreign court orders, says Falana The statement said, “Kayode was a part-time examiner, who assessed and marked students’ examination scripts at the Department of Accountancy of The Polytechnic, Ibadan. “He was arraigned by the ICPC in June 2016 on five counts for allegedly collecting sums of money from five students of the institution and attempting to assist them to alter and secure higher examination scores on different scripts written outside the examination hall. “All the offences contravened sections 9, 9(2), 9(2a) and 10b of the Examination Malpractices Act, CAP E15, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 1990. “The final judgment against Kayode was secured after the ICPC, through the prosecution counsel, Aderonke Bisi-Balogun, proved beyond reasonable doubt that he committed all the offences levelled against him. The sentence was handed down by Justice Abdulmalik, having found Kayode guilty of all the charges preferred against him.” The ICPC added that in handing down the judgment, Justice Abdulmalik stated that the convict was to serve four-year jail term for each of the five counts, bringing the total to 20 years’ imprisonment. The judge said Kayode’s sentence was to run concurrently from June 20, 2016, when he was first arrested. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 