Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress  Campaign Council for Kogi governorship election, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, on Thursday  appealed to  the people of Kogi State to forgive Governor Yahaya Bello. El-Rufai, said Bello was a young man who was bound to make mistakes, but had learnt from his mistakes and deserved forgiveness from the Kogi electorate. The Kaduna State governor was speaking at the grand finale of the APC campaign rally ahead of Saturday’s governorship election and Kogi West senatorial rerun. “We are here not only to campaign for the second term of Governor Bello but to bury the Peoples Democratic Party once and for all. “The PDP had ruled Kogi for 13 years but what he has (Bello) done in three years, the PDP has not done in 13 years. “People say Bello is a young man  and a young can make mistakes and learn from them, so, I hereby beg you all to forgive Yahaya Bello. He loves Kogi, he has given the young ones better opportunity.  He has empowered women; we must not repeat the mistakes of the past we must not allow evil to prevail. We must not allow the memory of our great leader, the late Prince Abuvakar Audu, to be in vain,” he said. El-Rufai also advised the people of Kogi West Senatorial District to vote Smart Adeyemi,  saying that his presence in the National Assembly would be to the benefit of  the President Buhari-led APC government. Also, Bello urged the people to vote for him on Saturday so that President Buhari would be happy that “his son in whom he is well pleased has been re-elected.” Present at the mega rally, were the wife of President Buhari, Aisha, wife of the Vice-President, Mrs Dolapo Oshinbajo; Chairman, Nigeria Governors Forum, who is also the Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi; the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole as well as the immediate past governor of Bauchi State ,Mohammed Abubakar. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    