Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Residents of the Ubio community in the Ahoada West Local Government Area of Rivers State have called on the National Emergency Management Agency to come to their rescue as the area has been submerged in flood. The paramount ruler of the community, Chief Napoleon Ordu, made the call on Thursday in an interview with Southern City News, adding that his people were in urgent need of help. Ordu lamented that his people had not received relief materials since the community was hit by flood, adding that some of the indigenes had lost valuables to the disaster. He stated that apart from properties like furniture, which were destroyed by the flood, the people also lost their farm crops as flood had taken over the entire community following continuous heavy rainfall. Ordu urged NEMA to come through him whenever its officials were to visit Ubio, adding that they should not reach his people through politicians. The monarch stated, “NEMA is not helping us. We want NEMA to come because our people are suffering as a result of the flood. As I speak, flood has destroyed all our crops. “When NEMA officials come, they should reach out to the people through me and not any illegal person, because I will always contact and reach out to my people. They should not come through politicians, because politicians are not helping us.” When contacted, a top official of NEMA in Abuja said it was necessary for state governments to intervene in the flood disaster affecting their people, adding that the intervention agency would always come in later. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “What has the Rivers State Government done about the problem? The state government ought to do something first before NEMA comes in. All the state governments are taking responsibility. “It is when they are overwhelmed that they can call on the Federal Government. The Rivers State Commissioner for the Environment should call NEMA.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 