Adelani Adepegba, Abuja A convicted internet fraudster, Hope Aroke, who is serving a 24-year jail term at the Kirikiri Maximum Correctional Centre in Lagos, has allegedly masterminded a $100 million scam while in custody. The convict, who is the subject of an investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Crimes reportedly pulled the heist using a network of accomplices. Aroje was one of two Malaysia-based Nigerian undergraduate fraudsters arrested by the EFCC in 2012 at the 1004 Housing Estate, Victoria Island, Lagos, following a tip-off. The EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, said the lid on his latest fraud exploits from the Correctional Centre was blown open following intelligence received by the anti-graft agency. According to the EFCC, a preliminary investigation revealed that the convict, against established standard practice, had access to the internet and mobile phone in the Correctional Centre. “Even more puzzling was the finding that Aroke got himself admitted to the Nigeria Police Hospital, Falomo, Lagos, for an undisclosed ailment. And from the hospital, he would move out to lodge in hotels, meet with his wife and two children and attend other social functions. “The circumstance of his admission into the hospital and those who aided his movement from the hospital to hotels and other social engagements are already being investigated by the EFCC,” the statement said. EFCC investigation also revealed that Aroke used a fictitious name, Akinwunmi Sorinmade, to open two accounts with First Bank Plc and Guaranty Trust Bank Plc. He also allegedly bought a property at Fountain Spring Estate, Lekki, Lagos, in 2018 for N22million and a Lexus RX 350 2018 model registered in his wife’s name, Maria Aroke. The convict was also in possession of his wife’s bank account token in prison, which he used to freely transfer funds. The commission said further investigation revealed that while his trial was ongoing in 2015, Aroke bought a four-bedroom duplex at Plot 12, Deji Fadoju Street, Megamounds Estate Lekki County Homes, Lekki for N48m. During his arrest, the Okene indigene had claimed to be a student of Computer Science at the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan University, Malaysia, but the commission’s investigation fingered him as the arrowhead of an intricate web of internet fraud scheme that traversed two continents. The statement read, “When Aroke was arrested, a search conducted by the EFCC operatives on his apartment led to the recovery of several items such as laptops, iPad, traveling documents, checkbooks, flash drives, internet modem, and three exotic cars – a Mercedes Benz Jeep, One 4Matic Mercedes Benz Car, and a Range Rover Sport SUV. “He was eventually convicted by Justice Lateefa Okunnu of a Lagos State High Court on two counts of obtaining money by false pretence, cheque cloning, wire transfer, and forgery. He was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment on each of the two counts.”