Sola Shittu, Benin The House Committee Chairman on Environment, Johnson Oghuma, has asked the Federal Government to consider granting duty waivers for imported power equipment such as solar panel, inverters, batteries, LED bulbs. Oghuma, representing Etsako East/West Central in the Federal House of Representatives, stated this on Friday while speaking with journalists in Benin. He said the House had also mandated its Committees on Environment and Climate Change to interface with the ministries of Environment, Finance, Science and Technology and the Energy Commission of Nigeria with a view to coming up with policies/programmes that would encourage alternative/renewable energy development to reduce global warming and report back within eight weeks for further legislative action. He said creating the enabling environment for the adoption of Green Energy Technology through duty waivers would encourage wider access to solar energy in Nigeria, adding that it would lead to a reduction in the country’s carbon footprints in line with the global drive for a cleaner and healthier environment. “In 2015, the world adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is aimed at reducing global carbon footprints by 20 per cent. With Nigeria being one of the signatories means it is committed to the reduction of its carbon footprints substantially in line with this global drive for a cleaner and healthier environment. “A few years later, there have been remarkable improvements and positive developments in the area of renewable energy with global investments increasing by 17 per cent and a rise in global electricity generation by 9.1 per cent.” The lawmaker also said “Providing the enabling environment will not only ensure increased access to more sources of the power supply but also encourage the transfer of renewable energy technology in Nigeria.” According to him, the cost of renewable energy technologies, particularly solar technology in Nigeria is still very expensive and out of the reach of ordinary Nigerians. “We will appreciate the need for Nigeria to join the group of progressive countries working towards mitigating global warming by adopting alternative and renewable energy technologies,” Oghuma said. His prayer that the House Urge the Federal Government to provide special incentives through duty waivers or tariff reductions on imported renewable energy equipment like solar panels, inverters, batteries, LED bulbs etc. while encouraging investments in Climate-smart energy projects was adopted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   