Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti A human rights lawyer, Mr Morakinyo Ogele, has approached an Ado Ekiti High Court to seek N1bn damages from the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, for the families of two students of the Federal University of Oye Ekiti, killed during a protest in the school. The two students, Kehinde Dada and Joseph Okonofua, reportedly died from gunshot injuries sustained during a standoff between the students and the police. Ogele, who filed the application pursuant to Order 11 Rule 1 of the Fundamental Rights (Enforcement Procedure Rules) 2009, joined the Nigeria Police Force, the Inspector General of Police and the Police Commissioner, Ekiti Command as respondents. In the suit, No HAD/A09RFRM/2019, filed on October 30, 2019, the human rights lawyer urged the court “to determine whether it is lawful for the officers of the respondents to kill the students in such a brutal manner.” Ogele described the alleged shooting “as an abridgement of the rights of the deceased as enshrined in Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution”, saying such action amounted to extra judicial killing. He sought an order directing the respondents to pay a sum of N1bn as damages to the families of the students. Among others, he is also seeking “a court declaration that the killing was a breach of the constitution” and an order directing the respondents to conduct a serious investigation within the Ekiti State Police Command and identify the officers responsible for the killings. The lawyer also canvassed “an order directing the police to prosecute the officers” and another one compelling the respondents to conduct compulsory psychiatric tests on their officers for the safety of the Nigerian citizens. He said, “The families of the students must be compensated because the students were only exercising their constitutional rights of protest when they were murdered by the men of the respondents.” Meanwhile, a statement from the FUOYE Public Relations Officer, Mr Godfrey Bakji, on Wednesday evening, said the institution, which had been closed down following the crisis that rocked the institution, would be reopened for academic work on November 11. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 