Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that the Rail Wagon Assembly Plant construction in Nigeria will generate about 5,000 direct and indirect jobs when completed and boost socio-economic activities. Osinbajo made this disclosure while performing the Official Ground Breaking Ceremony for the construction of the plant in Kajola, Ogun State on Saturday. “The plant which is a private investment to be undertaken by Messers CCECC is central in the production of rolling stock, spare parts and maintenance of equipment needed for the railway modernisation programme being implemented by this administration. “This ceremony is not just another event, it is a historic turning point. For us, the railway is not only an alternative and comfortable mode of travel. “It holds the master key to transforming commerce in Nigeria and across the continent. By linking our ports to rail lines and now, building the rolling stock locally, import and export business within, into and out of Africa’s largest market will never be the same. “When completed, it is expected that the plant would produce some parts of the wagons for the Lagos-Ibadan and Abuja-Kaduna rail lines, but also for the central rail lines and to satisfy the needs of other rail operators within the West- African sub-region. “The plant would offer an important platform for engineers, technicians, artisans and other professionals to gain the specialized skills required for the production and maintenance of rolling stock. “This will invariably conduce to spin-off businesses in the region of operation and across the country wherever rail networks are in existence. “The plant is expected to generate about five thousand (5,000) direct and indirect jobs,” Osinbajo said. According to him, the siting of the plant here in Nigeria and the commitment to hiring Nigerians and Nigerian businesses affirms the Presidents directives in Executive Order 5. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the event was witnessed by several government functionaries, community, religious and traditional leaders. (NAN)