Olaide Oyelude, Katsina A 50-year-old man, Bala Umaru, has reportedly confessed to the police that he had carnal knowledge of his neighbour’s 12-year-old daughter only five times before his arrest. His alleged confessional statement was tendered before a Katsina State Senior Magistrates’ Court sitting in Katsina on Thursday. The police said Umaru, who resides in the Unguwar Kashe Nera Quarter, Dutsin-ma Local Government Area of the state, allegedly made the confession during interrogation. Umaru is standing trial on a charge of rape, contrary to the provision of Section 283 of the Penal Code Law. According to the police, the father of the victim, Audu Isiyaku, reported the matter at the Dutsin-ma Police Station on October 19, 2019. The victim, her father and the defendant reside in the same compound. The police prosecutor, ASP Sani Sale, said Isiyaku alleged that on October 16, 2019, around 6pm, Umaru deceived and lured the victim into his room, where he forcefully had carnal knowledge of her. Based on the report, the police arrested Umaru and charged him. The prosecutor told the court that during interrogation, the suspect confessed to have had carnal knowledge of the victim on five different occasions. The prosecutor prayed the court for an adjournment to enable the police conclude investigation into the matter. The presiding magistrate, Hajiya Fadile Dikko, granted the request and adjourned the case to January 2, 2020, for mention. She directed that Umaru be remanded in a correctional facility till then. In a related development, one Kabir Sa’adu, 40, of Kurungafa village in the Kafur Local Government Area of the state has also been remanded in the Katsina Correctional Centre until January 9, 2020, when his case is expected to come up for mention before the same court. Sa’a du is also standing trial for rape. The police told the court that the defendant allegedly raped the 13-year-old daughter of his neighbour on October 20, 2019. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Lawal Bello, told the court that the victim’s father, one Aliyu Mamman, reported the incident at the Area Commander’s office in Malumfashi, leading to Sa’adu’s arrest. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  