James Abraham, Jos A few hours after the Court of Appeal dismissed his petition challenging Governor Simon Lalong ‘s victory, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Plateau State, Jeremiah Useni, has headed to the Supreme Court to challenge the verdict of the appellate court. Useni’s Media Consultant, Mr Yiljap Abraham confirmed the development in a statement in Jos on Friday Yiljap said “Governorship candidate of the Plateau PDP in the 2019 election, Lt. Gen (Rtd) Sen. Jeremiah Timbut Useni, has instructed his legal team to prepare and proceed to the Supreme Court immediately to challenge Friday’s judgment of the Appeal Court which affirmed the decision of the lower tribunal. “The decision was taken during a review meeting with the legal experts and General Useni. [READ ALSO] VIDEO: Buhari’s refusal to offer Tinubu’s wife a handshake stirs Twitter debate “The legal team, led by Chief Counsel, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, with Edward Pwajok, SAN, Benson Igbanoi, Sunny-Gabriel Odey, and many other legal experts are expected to lodge the appeal at the Supreme Court within two weeks.” The PDP candidate praised his legal team for holding strongly to the tenets of the profession and in bringing the issues in the petition to the forefront as well as commended them for standing firmly on the side of the rule of law and democracy. He said “Our cause is the right cause. We should not make the law look as if it is not important. Let the Supreme Court declare whether lying on oath is not against the law.” [READ ALSO] Appeal court judgement: Let’s move Plateau forward, Lalong tells Useni He described the judgment of the appellate court as a surprise, especially having dismissed the two cross-appeals of the cross appellants as lacking in merit and an abuse of court process. Sen. Useni said he was also surprised that the judgment, delivered by Hon Justice O.A Otisi completely avoided making any pronouncement on an earlier judgment of the Supreme Court which reversed the decision of the Court of Appeal expunging the testimony of 21 of his witnesses.