Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government has inaugurated pioneer officers of the National Fish Association of Nigeria with the aim of boosting domestic fish production, following the closure of Nigeria’s borders to fish imports, among others. It said NFAN, made up of fish farmers and producers nationwide, would help forestall scarcity of fish that could arise from the closure of Nigeria’s borders. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Sunday Akpan, told journalists on the sidelines of the inauguration of NFAN executive officers in Abuja that one of the major objectives of the association was to increase domestic fish production. He said, “They are made up of fish producers from all parts of the country and with this kind of association and with the target and objectives that they pursue, I’m sure the national production of fish will not only increase, but the quality and export value will grow. “And we believe that they will produce enough fish in-country to meet domestic demand and cushion any effect that may arise as a result of the closure of the borders.” Akpan said the ministry would introduce the association to agencies of government that would support it such as the Bank of Industry and the Bank of Agriculture. The National President, NFAN, Gabriel Ogunsanya, said the over five million members of the association were ready to produce fish that would not just meet domestic demand but for export. He said, “We are introducing more people in the fish value chain in order to mitigate any adverse impact which the border closure might have on the availability of fish in Nigeria. “And by so doing, we are going to use the fish industry to generate jobs for the youths by applying what we call in-country operation, which was applied in Denmark to expand its fish sector. “We’ve trained over 6,000 youths in the South-West and over 3,200 in the South-East on fish production. With this move, there will be enormous supply of fish in-country despite the closure of Nigeria’s borders.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  