The National Vice Chairman (South-South), All Progressives Congress, Chief Hilliard Eta, in this interview with KAMARUDEEN OGUNDELE and Mudiaga Affe, counts the gains and losses of the ruling party in promoting internal democracy and party discipline Did you see the victory in Bayelsa State governorship election coming? Yes, the results of the election would have been foretold if anyone had paid attention to the internal dynamics of Bayelsa State even before the election. A lot of variables came into play at the same time. One is the non- performance of Governor Seriake Dickson. The second one is the atrocious disrespect the governor showed to the father of Bayelsa, the former President Goodluck Jonathan. The third is the love the people of the state showed to our candidate, David Lyon. These and other factors made it possible for us. Like my friend and brother, former governor Timipre Sylva said, ‘the governor made it very easy for us to win the election.’ The governor accused the APC of using the former president to truncate the PDP’s ruling in the state. How right is he? I knew the governor would blame everyone but himself after losing the election. One would have thought he would do a proper introspection rather than retrospection of his leadership in Bayelsa. If he did that he would come to an unsavoury result. He has not shown democratic capacity, he has not shown capacity to develop Bayelsa State, and he has not shown capacity to respect the elders and stakeholders in the state. I’m not surprised that he is blaming everyone but himself. If there was anyone who helped the party to win the election more than anything else, it was the governor himself. There was this concern that the party threw caution to the wind by seeking the help of militants to win the election. Why did your party go to that extent? When people make allegation it is for them to prove. He who asserts must prove. It is not for people to stay in the comfort of their room and begin to make wild allegations. But that is not to say that elections have ever been perfect in Nigeria. It has never been perfect in any jurisdiction of the world, Nigeria is not an exception. It is true we have to improve on our electoral processes but that is not to say that every Tom, Dick and Harry will give reasons for failure. Perhaps we have to learn to accept defeat and congratulate winners after elections, especially that of November 16. I think it would have been proper and more enabling for Governor Dickson to put a call through to the winner and governor-elect. Let me state for emphasis that the results of that election reflected the will of the people. First Edo State, now Bayelsa State, the party seems to be making a foray into the South South – the stronghold of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. What have you been doing differently? If you are a keen follower of politics in Nigeria, you should not be surprised that Edo State is in the folds of the progressives. For a very long time, other parts of the South-South had always belonged to the conservatives. This is the first time that the conservative part of the South-South had ceded power to the progressives. It is an open door for the progressives to make an entry into the South-South. It is an opportunity for the people to have a taste of the progressives and their capacity to bring good governance and compared to what they have always had under the conservatives of the ideological divide. If we (APC) properly manage Bayelsa, it will be a catalyst for the proper development of the South-South. If we manage our success very well it will be a good example for other parts of the South-South to follow. Now that the election has been won and lost what effort is the party making to avoid Rivers and Zamfara states’ treatment? The situation in Bayelsa is different from what we had in Rivers and Zamfara states. I don’t want to go deeply into legal issues. I leave that to our lawyers and the legal department of the party to protect our mandate. But let me say without disrespect to the judiciary that the intervention of the judiciary in political processes poses a great challenge to all of us and we must find a way of dealing with the challenges. Would you say the results would have been different if APC had participated in the Rivers election? Definitely, I think that the condition in the South-South gives room for the development in Bayelsa and with prospects in other South-South states. It is just that everything worked together for the party in Bayelsa whereas in Rivers State all the variables did not come to play to the advantage of the party because of internal crisis that didn’t allow us to take advantage of the situation presented to us. Still on Rivers, the party recently raised a committee to work with stakeholders to conduct congresses but a group went to court to stop the committee. Is this not a sign of looming fresh crisis? A political party is a human organisation with its contradictions and tendencies for conflicts. But the good thing about this is that politics has conflicts resolution mechanism as one of its tenets. As long as we meet we must have conflicts and must have the capacity for conflicts resolution. The situation in Rivers, though shameful, but the party is doing much it can to resolve the crisis. The Niger Delta region seems to be interesting because issues are always cropping up. Recently, an interim management committee was raised by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, for the Niger Delta Development Commission. This was against the nominees of the President recently screened by the Senate. Does this not suggest conflict of interest among the APC power brokers in the region largely under your leadership? It is true we have many flashpoints in Niger Delta. This is due to large factors. One is that we are perhaps the most heterogeneous zone in the country. We hardly find issues that are so monumental in context that will override our differences. Sometimes we find but most other times we don’t. That’s why we have many conflicts in our zone and one of which is the composition and the management of the NDDC. I take strong position on this because a matter of development is something that requires strong attention. The NNDC was established by an Act of Parliament and for us must be superintended over based on the Act. Anything that is taken away from the Act constitutes an infraction and disrespect for the rule of law. The Act says that all monies accruable to the commission must be managed by a governing board. The law does not envisage any interim or ad hoc committee. So it is clear that what the minister (Godswill Akpabio) is embarking on is an illegal misadventure. It is so shameful that we find it very difficult to understand what the mindset of the minister is because some of us think he is doing this for personal benefits. He claims the interim management is to allow for a forensic audit as ordered by the President but we find this statement fallacious and self-serving. First of all, does the creation of the interim management committee help the work of the forensic auditors in any way? Secondly, are members of the committee auditors that would help the standard external auditors coming? Thirdly, was the minister not one of those who nominated people into the governing board? Are you aware that one of the interim management committee members was nominated on the governing board? What could the person do as a member of the IMC that could not have done as a member of the governing board? We have observed that anytime you take the NDDC under the supervision of the ministry headed by a Niger Delta, he uses the NDDC for personal politics. We are calling on the president to step in. The president sent the lists to the Senate and they have been screened and confirmed. It will not be a good thing for the president to allow the minister to disrupt the good work of the NDDC and bring shame to the APC in the South-South and Nigeria in general. The minister must purge himself of the impunity he enjoyed in the PDP. In the APC we mean business because we are to deliver on the mandates of Mr President to our people. We can’t tolerate any form of impunity from the minister or anyone. What will be the intervention of the party in this situation? The minister was appointed by the president. We are sure the president would do something about this in no distant future. The party would ensure that all appointees do what is right to deliver on the mandates given to us by Nigerians. What do you expect from the president on this matter? All illegal contraptions must be reversed. The forensic audit ordered by the president should be carried out under the purview of the presidency. With the recent actions of the minister we do not trust that he would not interfere in the work of the external auditors. We want internationally recognised auditors to be appointed by the president to carry out the audit. Still talking on the NDDC, the minister fears that the governing board could interfere in the work of the auditors…. Does that not suggest him to be an interested party? We know the way he works. He cannot fool us by those political talks. We know he is the one who is hell bent to interfere on the work of external auditors. Another state under you, Edo State, has been in the news in recent times for wrong reasons. There is a fight in the camp of Governor Godwin Obaseki and loyalists of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the crisis seems to be lingering. Election in the state is next year, what is the party doing about it? We can’t come here on the pages of newspaper to reveal our secrets. All I can tell is that the party is in charge and working hard to stem the crisis. The results will be made known soon. On the suspensions, in some of these cases the party cannot control the personal conduct of its members because it was not possible for the party to have known that what happened on that day would happen. Don’t you think this can affect the chances of the party in the election? We can’t go to a war a divided house. The party is doing everything to reconcile all aggrieved members so that the party can go into elections united, virile and strong. Is the fight about the second term of the governor? I don’t think it is so. There are so many insinuations that the national chairman wants to lord himself over his ‘godson’. Others are saying it is because the governor wants to secure his second term at all cost. What I can tell you is that none of those assertions is correct. By the time the party comes out with its report on the crisis the public will know it was just a minor disagreement blown out of proportion. When is the party raising the fact-finding committee to Edo as promised by the NWC? The party has taken steps on that already, you will hear very soon (The party has now released the list of the committee headed by Kano Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje). The party is working silently on this. The truth is that any time we take a matter to the public it is exacerbated and tendency for disagreement is enhanced. But if we allowed things to be done out of the public glare we get better results. One of the party’s governorship aspirants, Heineken Lokpobiri, dragged the party to court over the conduct of the primary, how will that matter be resolved? Senator Heineken Lokpobiri is a committed member of our party and sometimes in the heat of passion when you feel aggrieved you may need to take certain steps. However, being a party man he is being talked to and I believe that there will be an amicable resolution at the end of it all. How would you react to the comment by the River State Governor, Nyesom Wike that an enemy has taken over Bayelsa? Well, I cannot be the psychologist that will look into the mind-set of a man who calls his political opponent an ‘enemy’. We would need to consult psychiatrists or those who are trained in psychology to unravel the mind-set of such a man. For me, it is neither here nor there. Rivers State is a political jurisdiction in the federation of Nigeria and if there is a contest for political space the APC would contest for leadership in that state. So, if he thinks that by making such assertions it would make us shy from contesting for a political space in Rivers State then he may have to have a rethink. Casting your mind back to the judgments against the party in Rivers and Zamfara states, would you say the APC has learnt its lessons the hard way? Much as I would not want to say to Nigerians that the party has done its very best, I want to say that in Zamfara and Rivers, the party tried to take the processes of internal democracy from the strong men to ordinary members of the party. It was a contradiction of the strong men to hold sway that cost us Zamfara. The former governor (Abdul-Azeez Yari) attempted to impose every candidate on the people and the party stood its ground that it would not allow that to happen. I think Nigerians interested in internal democracy should hail the party for trying to promote internal democracy even though we lost in Zamfara. Yes, the governors are important in the affairs of the party but they cannot all alone be the one to impose candidates in electoral positions in a state. That for me constitutes a learning curve for the party. I believe the party has learnt how to deal with the issues now far better. I think it was also a teething problem for the national executives elected in June and conducting primaries between August and September. That in itself posed a great challenge and I know the party elders and leaders would look into this. It would be a good thing if the National Executive Committee had been in office for over a year to properly prepare for the primaries. Primaries are very important in deepening internal democracy and should not be taken lightly. It requires a lot of hard work. There was a time we were awake for 72 hours planning for the primaries. That wouldn’t have happened if we had enough time to plan. Our elders and leaders should revisit the time the national executives should come into office and the time for primaries to allow for careful planning. What was the experience in Rivers State? The truth of the matter is that in Rivers State, we adopted a mode of primary that was responsible for the judicial pronouncement that made it impossible for us to have candidates in the elections. That is also a learning curve for the party. That got us thinking on the suitability or otherwise of having a uniform mode of primaries across the state or allowing stakeholders in the state to determine their own mode of primary in their jurisdiction. Still on Rivers, now that a court has stopped the party from conducting congresses, what is the way forward? The way forward is for us to continue exploring the means of bringing everybody to the table. As the vice-chairman of the party I cannot but feel ashamed that our party did not present candidates in the general elections. Rivers State is under my purview. I feel ashamed that personal disagreement culminated into a wholesale donation of Rivers State to the PDP. I will make sure we do our best to deal with the situation for the party to emerge stronger in the state and to achieve peace. Why is it that the crisis in Rivers State APC is still unresolved despite several moves? For me, I believe that the Rivers imbroglio in almost intractable crisis is down to ego and people who do not want to share political space with others. At least what is there after we have lost everything in Rivers State? One would have believed that the party leaders in Rivers State would have been so shy and ashamed of the position that they have brought disrepute to the party. If it were me, I would do everything to make sure that that kind of thing does not happen again to the party. But you see, they have made it impossible for everybody in the party, whether the President, Vice-President, National Chairman and even myself to intervene and I think it is quite a shame. Let me tell you that the Rivers situation is a dark spot in our party. As the National Vice Chairman of the party in the zone, are you going to leave it that way, are there no other moves you can make? There is nothing that has possibly not been done, except that maybe the party will have to look at dissolving everything completely in the state. Anything that concerns the party in the state may have to be given to a caretaker committee to run because it is such a painful thing and I find it difficult to discuss the Rivers matter. Look at it, we did not participate in any election in the state and there is absolutely nothing for us in Rivers State and yet people are still fighting. These are people who ought to come together and try to take away the kind of a shame that they have put the party into. Maybe the party will get to the party where they will have to dissolve everything that has to do with APC in Rivers State and appoint a caretaker committee that will not be linked with anyone for the party. Are the main actors beyond the party? It is not about the main actors being beyond the party. There is nobody that is beyond the party. We have shown enormous courage, especially under the leadership of Adams Oshiomhole in the handling of the issues in Rivers State. So, it not about anybody being beyond the party, it is just that people have refused to learn to live together. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 