Friday Olokor, Abuja A coalition of over 60 political parties on Monday blamed security agencies and politicians for the violence and other electoral malpractices witnessed in the just-concluded governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States, describing their actions as treason. According to them, the election was a serious dent on the progress made so far in ensuring free and fair elections. While demanding an explanation from the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, as to why the 35,000 police officers deployed in Kogi State were helpless and could not stop the political thugs, they urged the Federal Government to “set up an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the overrunning of 35,000 policemen by a motley crowd of political thugs.” The political parties under the aegis of Forum of Chairmen of Nigeria Political Parties, expressed these feelings during a press briefing in Abuja, after a review of the conduct of the elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States. The event had in attendance over 60 party chairmen, including Perry Opara of National Unity Party; Adamu Takai of Advanced Congress of Democrats and Kenneth Udeze of the Action Alliance. Udeze, who spoke for the forum called for an urgent conclusion of the process of the amendment of the Electoral Act, the introduction of electronic transmission of results straight from the Polling Units to a central database, electronic voting (if possible) and electronic accreditation of figures to ensure that magical and humongous figures were not generated. He said, “The failure of the elections was not caused by administrative lapses or inefficiency of the Independent National Electoral Commission but by the treasonable actions of security agencies, who compromised the process and aided political thugs to disrupt the entire process and cart away electoral materials. “The blanket blame on INEC for the failure of elections is inapplicable in this situation as commission discharged their duties while the security agencies failed the people of Kogi and Bayelsa. We absolve INEC and we indict the security agencies for the failures of those two elections.” Udeze said that despite the thousands of security personnel deployed in Kogi and Bayelsa for the elections, it could be stated that thugs had a field day particularly in Kogi State, where their activities played a major role in determining who was eventually declared to have won the election. He decried a situation in which there were no reports of arrests made on election day by the police to stop the gun-wielding thugs, who stormed many polling centres. The parties said, “The Collation Centres were made inaccessible to duly accredited observers and agents of other political parties except those that were allowed by the thugs; while over 35,000 policemen watched helplessly and haplessly.” “The role of security agencies during the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States were largely reprehensible. Men in police uniforms were seen aiding thugs to carry ballot boxes and other materials from the centres and abducting polling staff.” He stressed that the 35,200 policemen deployed to Kogi State were all either standing by watching or were active participants allegedly guarding the thugs to carry the election materials and disrupt a hitherto peaceful and well-organised process. Udeze described as disheartening the comments by the Inspector General of Police that the Police got intelligence about the plans of politicians to sew police uniforms. “The IGP did not announce anything else the police did. He has since not announced the arrest of any of the persons he referred to as fake policemen who were on the rampage and heavily dented the credibility of the election. “The Inspector-General still owes Nigerians a lot of explanation on why the 35,000 policemen in Kogi were helpless and could not stop these thugs. “We urge the Federal Government to set up an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the overrunning of 35, 000 policemen by a motley crowd of political thugs. The GOC who compromised his men should also be investigated and appropriate punishment meted out to all who are found wanting.”