Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki An Ebonyi State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Abakaliki, on Monday, remanded a 38-year-old man, Simon Ozibo, in a correctional facility for murdering his mother, Mrs Felicia Ozibo. It was gathered that the suspect committed the crime on Thursday, November 14, 2019, at Iziogo community in the Izzi Local Government Area of the state. The accused allegedly murdered his mother in the presence of his wife with a cutlass and shovel when she came to his house to visit him. In his confessional statement, Simon said he had always seen her as being responsible for his ugly experience in life. He added that he was in the habit of smoking India hemp, but maintained that on the day of the incident, he was not under the influence of drugs and alcohol. The accused was arraigned on one count of murder. The police prosecutor, Eze Ndubuako, told the court that the offence was punishable under Section 319(1) of the Criminal Code, Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you, Simon Ozibo, on November 14, 2019, at the Iziogo community in the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did unlawfully caused the death of one Felicia Ozibo by cutting her into pieces with a machete, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 319(1) of the Criminal Code, Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” The Chief Magistrate, Nnenna Onuoha, did not grant the suspect bail, because the matter was beyond the jurisdiction of her court. She directed that Simon be remanded in the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Abakaliki, and that his case file be transferred to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for advice. The matter was adjourned till December 6, 2019, for the DPP’s report of compliance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 