Afeez Hanafi Nigerians have called out the Police authorities over the extortion of a 22-year-old 300 level student of the Delta State University, Efe Ifie, by some policemen who accosted him and forcefully collected N150,000 meant for his school fees and feeding. They flayed the Delta State Commissioner of Police, Olayinka Adeleke, for not taking the matter seriously, urging that the erring policemen should be fished out and brought to book. Our Correspondent had reported that Ifie was heading for school on Tuesday in a bus when the policemen flagged down the vehicle and ordered him to disembark. After checking through his phone and finding two email addresses, they tagged him a fraudster and demanded N200,000 settlement to free him. SEE ALSO: Delta policemen collect N150,000 school fees from student at gunpoint His plea that he should be allowed to call his parents fell on deaf ears as the armed policemen took him to Ekpan Police Station, where they checked his phone and found a credit alert. They consequently led him to a POS centre and compelled him to withdraw N150,000 for them. Reacting to the incident, the Police spokesperson in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said the Police team could not have been from the Ekpan Division as the spot where Ifie was arrested was not under the division’s jurisdiction. But Nigerians who commented on the Saturday PUNCH’s report on the extortion likened the incident to a robbery and sought justice for the hapless student. On the comment section of PUNCHonline, Ekwuoma Umu-Ugbede, wrote, “That is armed robbery at gunpoint! PUNCH should please, work (on) this news until the officers are apprehended, sacked and sent to jail. This is wholesale heartlessness. “What the police PRO said is arrant nonsense. It is the duty of all Nigerians to report crime if they see one. Saying that the boy must report the case personally before they take action is silly! Let’s say the boy was hospitalised for a long time, could other persons not report the case and action taken?” Another poster on the PUNCH website, identified only as Chucks described the incident as “very unfortunate,” saying the police empowered to provide security for citizens were doing the opposite. “They are nothing but armed official robbers. By the way, is it lawful in Nigeria for police to go through people’s phone? Are people no more entitled to their privacy in Nigeria? This issue of going through people’s phone is becoming very common,” he stated. One Femi Jegede wondered if the IG was aware of the news and enjoined him to “fish the uniformed criminals out.” “What is the latest in this case? The CP cannot hide behind the PPRO. No. Is this armed robbery? I expect fire has started burning at that station by now. CP, wake up,” another commenter, Deinde Ayo, wrote. A Twitter user, Beneth Ofili, demanded that the matter must not be swept under the carpet, saying “the CP of Delta State must bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion.” “They should track the PoS owner. The person will know them,” he added. Another Twitter user, @binyaminu_24744, noted that the government had failed to reform the Nigerian police to meet with the international standard. On Facebook, Prince Charles demanded that “these armed robbers must be fished out and punished and this boy fees returned immediately,” describing the case as “very shameful.” “Those officers should be identified, tried, dismissed, and charged to court for robbery! This is a disgrace to the Nigerian police, Nigerian Citizens, and Nigeria as a country,” another Facebook user, Charles J Charles, wrote. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com