Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The developer of Pacific Lagos, Global Property Partners, says it plans to remodel the project. The firm also said it was on track to complete the project in 36 months (2022), given the resources already committed and the progress made with preliminary engineering, procurement and construction work. The Chief Executive Officer of the GPP, Mr Emmanuel Odemayowa, said the modifications to the project, located in Victoria Island, Lagos, were made in line with the firm’s vision of developing a best-in-class mixed-use real estate development as well as the specifications of some of the subscribers to the iconic twin towers. Odemayowa said, “The Pacific Lagos is now bigger, even better and offers more value. In place of the former design, what we now have are two distinct luxury towers – one with 10 suspended floors of premium office space for commercial use, as well as 12 floors of exclusive hotel apartments for residential purposes. “We have assembled a team of experienced, world-class professionals to ensure the Pacific Lagos meet the very exact standards envisaged by our clientele in terms of quality, expertise and the cutting-edge facilities we have outlined.” He stated that the market reception to the project had been enthusiastic. According to him, among the remodelled facilities in the Pacific Lagos are the recreational floor, which has been expanded and moved to the third floor for both towers with facilities meant to enhance the “Work.Live.Play” concept of project. He stated that the facilities on the recreational floor included large terrace space for outdoor relaxation for office and residential occupants, gymnasium, restaurants and bar, shops and generous space for various indoor games. “Also, the 10 office floors on Pacific Lagos are designed for optimal efficiency, functionality and convenience in one of the most strategic locations in Lagos. The 12 floors of residential space comprise one and two bedroom en suite hotel apartments modelled on five-star hospitality accommodation,” he added. Odemayowa said the new high-rise project was in line with the GPP’s parent company, the Cavalli Group’s vision of helping to reduce Nigeria’s severe housing deficit through the development of real estate modelled on international standards. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   