Godwin ISENYO, Kaduna. Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai on Wednesday met federal lawmakers, traditional rulers as well as religious leaders behind-closed-doors over the spate of kidnappings and banditry in the state. The lawmakers, traditional rulers and religious leaders were drawn from Birnin-Gwari, Chikun and Igabi Local Government Areas, considered volatile in the state. Amongst those who attended the meeting were heads of security agencies in the state. It was gathered at the meeting that the traditional rulers took turns to make submissions on how to tackle the incessant kidnapping and banditry in their domain. “Governor El-Rufai explained in details, security measures taken by the state government in the three local government areas and the state at large,” a source said. According to a statement by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, the governor met behind closed doors
“With House of Representatives members from the state, Kaduna State Assembly members, traditional and religious leaders from Birnin Gwari, Chikun and Igabi Local Government Areas alongside heads of security agencies in Kaduna State.” The Commissioner gave the names the attendees at meeting to include, Yakubu Umar Barde (Chikun/Kajuru Federal Constituency), Shehu Balarabe (Birnin Gwari/Giwa Federal Constituency), Zayyad Ibrahim(Igabi Federal Constituency), Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani-Igabi (West State Constituency), Haruna Inuwa-(Doka/Gabasawa State Constituency), Abdulwahab (Kurmin kogi-Ikara State Constituency). Others, the commissioner are Ayuba (Chawaza-Chikun State Constituency), Salisu Isah(Magajin Gari State Constituency), Bala Umar(Kakangi State Constituency), Shehu Yunusa(Kubau State Constituency), Suleiman Ibrahim Dabo (Zaria City State Constituency), Aisha Dikko, who is the State Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General, Muhammad Sani Abdullahi-(Chief of Staff), Jafaru Ibrahim Sani(Commissioner Local Government), and Hassan Usman, Commissioner for Riot Damages, Rehabilitation and Resettlement. Traditional rulers at the meeting are the Emir of Birnin Gwari, Alhaji Jibril Zubairu ll, the Etsu Chikun, Dr Danjuma Barde The security agencies were represented by the Garrison Commander, One Division, Nigerian Army, Kaduna, Brig-Gen OJ Akpor, Commodore Yakubu Pani, Commandant Nigerian Navy School of Armament Technology, Air Commodore Ibrahim Sani, Base Commander Nigerian Air Force, DC Abdullahi Ibrahim, Idris Koya, State Director of DSS, BA Dutsinma State Commander National Security and Civil Defence Corps and Col. Francis Omata, representing Operation Safe Haven.