Without any evidence, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro claimed on Friday that Hollywood star, Leonardo DiCaprio, financed fires being set in the Amazon rainforest. Bolsonaro is blaming the actor for allegedly making $500,000 donations to an environmental organisation — the World Wildlife Fund — which had paid for images taken by volunteer firefighters that it then used to solicit donations. The WWF has denied receiving a donation from DiCaprio or obtaining photos from the firefighters. “This Leonardo DiCaprio is a cool guy, right? Giving money to torch the Amazon,” Bolsonaro said during a brief remarks in front of the presidential residence. DiCaprio has been an outspoken advocate on behalf of combating climate change, posting frequently on Twitter about environmental issues, including the Amazon forest fires. His Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, which is focused on projects that “protect vulnerable wildlife from extinction,” is part of the Earth Alliance. The environmental organisation has pledged $5m to help protect the Amazon after fires destroyed large parts of the rainforest in July and August. Bolsonaro has claimed in the past, without evidence, that the fires were started by nongovernmental organizations in retaliation for his administration’s funding cuts. He has repeatedly lashed out at various factions in casting blame for the forest fires. In a Facebook live post on August 21, he said, “Everything indicates” that NGOs were going to the Amazon to “set fire” to the forest. One day later, he admitted that farmers could be illegally setting the rainforest ablaze, but roughly a month later, he attacked the “lying media” for saying that the rainforest was being devastated by the fires. The Amazon rainforest is considered a bulwark against global climate change. “So what did the NGO do? What is the easiest thing? Set fire to the forest. Take pictures, make a video,” the president said. “(WWF) makes a campaign against Brazil, it contacts Leonardo DiCaprio, he donates $500,000,” Bolsonaro alleged during a live webcast. “A part of that went to the people that were setting fires. Leonardo DiCaprio, you are contributing to the fire in the Amazon, that won’t do,” he added.