Enyioha Opara, Minna The Niger State Police Command, on Sunday, confirmed the arrest of one Saidu Mohammed of the Gbogan Zugurma village in the Mashegu Local Government Area of the state for alleged murder. The suspect was said to have killed one Bala Yahaya of the same address by slamming him on the ground following a dispute that arose from an altercation over an unpaid debt. It was learnt that the victim’s father, Mallam Yahaya, had earlier reported that his son was in the Gbogan Market to collect an undisclosed debt from the suspect, who had refused to pay. Our correspondent also gathered that when the deceased went to the suspect to demand his money, a fight broke out between the two of them. The suspect reportedly picked up the deceased and slammed him on the bare floor. This action was said to have led to the death of Bala as he collapsed and was rushed to hospital, where doctors pronounced him dead. In an interview with our correspondent, the suspect admitted to owing the deceased an undisclosed sum of money as well as engaging him in the fight, which led to his death. He explained that he was provoked into fighting as the deceased became rude while demanding his money. Mohammed said, “He was rude to me in his approach. I know I owed him, but he should not have taken advantage of that to insult me. It was his rude behaviour that provoked me into fighting him, which eventually led to his death. “Bala did not give me time to explain why I could not raise the money I owe him, rather, he resorted to abusing me and my family and we started fighting. I regret that this led to his death.” The command’s Public Relations Officer, Muhammad Abubakar, confirmed the incident, saying the suspect had confessed to the crime. Abubakar said the victim was rushed to the General Hospital, Mokwa, where he was confirmed dead, adding that the matter had been charged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  