Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki An Ebonyi State Magistrate’s Court, sitting in Abakaliki, on Monday, remanded 38-year-old Ozibo Simon, at a correctional facility for allegedly murdering his biological mother, Mrs Ozibo Felicia. It was gathered that the suspect committed the crime on Thursday, November 14, 2019, at Iziogo community in the Izzi Local Government Area of the state. The accused, it was further gathered, had murdered his mother on November 14, 2019, with a cutlass and shovel when she came to his house to see him, in the presence of his wife. In his confessional statement, the accused, Mr Ozibo Simon said that his mother didn’t offend him, but that he had always seen her as being responsible for his “ordeals” and “ugly” experiences in life. READ ALSO: LASG tranquilises, removes lion from Victoria Island house He added that he had been in the habit of smoking India hemp, but maintained that on the very day of the incident, he was neither under the influence of  Indian hemp or alcohol. The accused was arraigned on Monday, on one count bordering on murder. The Police Prosecutor, Barr Eze Ndubuako, told the court that the offence was punishable under section 319(1) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you, Ozibo Simon ‘m’ on the 14th day of November, 2019, at Iziogo community, in the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did unlawfully cause the death of one Ozibo Felicia ‘f’ by cutting her with machete into pieces and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 319(1) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” The Chief Magistrate, Nnenna Onuoha, did not grant the suspect bail, because according to her, the matter was beyond the jurisdiction of the court. She directed that the accused be remanded at the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Abakaliki and that his case file should be transferred to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, for necessary advice. The matter was adjourned till December 6, 2019, for the DPP’s report of compliance.