John Ameh and Femi Makinde The Yoruba Council of Elders has advised Vice President Yemi Osinbajo against resigning his position because of the alleged war against him by a cabal in the Presidency. The Yoruba elders also advised President Muhammadu Buhari to remember Osinbajo’s loyalty to him and refuse to be used by some power against his Vice President. The Secretary General of the YCE, Dr Kunle Olajide, said this in an interview with Saturday PUNCH in Lagos on Friday. Olajide said it was obvious that some persons were “seriously” working against the Vice President, saying the 2023 presidential ambition of some of Osinbajo’s persecutors was the reason for doing this. The YCE scribe said, “We know like other Nigerians that there are enough signs that some people are working against Osinbajo but who the people are, I don’t know. “It is obvious that some people are working against him and unfortunately, it appears as if Mr President is dancing to their tune. SEE ALSO: Married for over 79 years, American man, 106, wife, 105 named world’s oldest couple “I will urge Mr President to remember the Vice President’s loyalty to him in the past four years, especially when he was out of the country for three months and refused to allow unguarded ambition to push him.” Olajide said the elders’ council did not support the advice given by some people to Osinbajo to resign his position. “President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo hold the ticket together. Both of them were elected on a joint ticket, so Osinbajo should not resign,” he said. He urged the Vice President to remain loyal to the President and serve the country “patriotically.” He said, “Osinbajo should remain god-fearing and people-centred in his activities and in the end, he will be vindicated. “No matter the motivation of some 2023 presidential aspirants against him, he should remain steadfast in what he is doing in the past four years that are acceptable to Nigerians and to God.” Meanwhile, the Presidency on Friday admitted that President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the sacking of some aides to Osinbajo. It came after days of silence from the President’s office and barely 24 hours after the VP’s aide denied that any Osinbajo aide was sacked. The Presidency stated that the aides were sacked as part of the ongoing overhauling in the seat of government to cut costs. A State House statement by Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu, which officially confirmed the sacking, denied that the exercise was targeted at Osinbajo or that there existed any rift between Buhari and Osinbajo. The statement read, “The Presidency wishes to confirm that there is an ongoing unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government, arising from which a number of political appointments have either been revoked or not renewed in the second term. “The exercise, which has been ordered by the President, is to streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration. “It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce which acts as a drag on efficiency.” It added, “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the second term. “The office of the Vice President, His Excellency, Yemi Osinbajo, has, in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these exercises, the overriding objective is to save taxpayers’ money and deliver the needed service to the public. As far as the President is concerned, there is no scope for an excuse for administration after getting a huge mandate to run the country for four more years.” Denying that rift existed between Buhari and Osinbajo, the Presidency insisted that their relationship remained cordial. He said, “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation. “The media reports of a sour relationship are originating from the minds and mouths of mischief-makers, who are desperate for entertaining stories from the Aso Rock Villa with which to titillate the public. This ulterior motive is the basis of the wrong interpretation given to the recent exercise in the Presidency. “There has been a streamlining of staff going on for a while. The President has always had fewer members of staff than the Vice-President, and there were always plans to reduce the number of staff at the Villa.” The VP’s spokesperson, Mr Laolu Akande, had, in his comment on Thursday, dismissed the sacking of 35 of his boss’s aides. “A list circulating in the media on the so-called sacked presidential aides is not genuine and ought to be ignored,” he had said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com