By evening the toll was 20 dead, according to the defence ministry. Most were pulled from wreckage in the coastal city of Durres and Thumane, a town north of the capital Tirana. In neighbouring Kurbin a man in his fifties died after jumping from his building in panic. Another perished in a car accident after the earthquake tore open parts of the road, the ministry said. SEE ALSO: Ex-Gov Yari protests non-payment of his N10m monthly allowance Dulejman Kolaveri, a man in his 50s in Thumane, told AFP he feared his 70-year-old mother and six-year-old niece were trapped inside the five-storey apartment, because they lived on the top floor. “I don’t know if they are dead or alive. I’m afraid of their fate… only God knows,” he said with trembling hands. There were also brief bursts of joy during the day as rescuers delicately extracted survivors. One, a thin middle-aged man covered in a film of grey dust, was seen being carried out of the rubble on a stretcher in Thumane. In Durres, onlookers cheered “Bravo!” as a team rescued a young man from the wreckage of a toppled seaside hotel in a two-hour operation. Afraid to return home after a series of powerful aftershocks, hundreds of people in Durres took shelter in tents set up in the city’s football stadium. The health ministry said that more than 600 people have received first aid for injuries, mostly minor. Albania is known for its chaotic urban planning, particularly in popular tourist spots along the coast, where illegal construction is rife. Tuesday’s quake was the strongest to hit the Durres region since 1926, seismologist Rrapo Ormeni told local television. Albanian authorities described it as the most powerful quake in the last 20-30 years. It struck at 3:54 am local time (0254 GMT), with an epicentre 34 kilometres (about 20 miles) northwest of Tirana, according to the European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre. In Tirana, panicked residents ran out onto the streets and huddled together after the quake hit. Several powerful aftershocks followed, including one of 5.3 magnitude. The movements of the small Adriatic micro-plate also produces earthquakes, according to Kresimir Kuk from the Croatian seismological institute. The most devastating quake in recent times hit North Macedonia’s capital Skopje in July 1963, killing around a thousand people and destroying some 80 per cent of the city. (AFP)