Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), and others on Tuesday said corruption had not ended despite the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s efforts to stamp out the scourge. Speaking at an event in Abuja, the stakeholders highlighted steps needed to be taken to strengthen the Federal Government’s anti-corruption agenda. The event, tagged, ‘One-day Dialogue Session on Strengthening the Anti-Corruption Agenda: Ensuring Accountability and Transparency,’ was jointly organised by PACAC and the Centre for Democracy and Development with the funding provided by the MacArthur Foundation. Others who delivered goodwill messages at the event, included the Director of CDD, Idayat Hassan, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes, Senator Suleiman Kwari, and the Director, Africa Office, MacArthur Foundation, Kole Shettima. They suggested various ways of improving the fight against corruption. Represented by the Permanent Secretary, Special Services, Amina Shamaki, the SGF said the Buhari administration had since 2015 recorded “unprecedented level of successes” in the fight against corruption. This, he said, was done through securing “the most number of convictions, including very high profile personalities” and making “world record recoveries in terms of money and assets.” But he said despite the successes recorded, the anti-graft war had not been won. Mustapha said, “Nonetheless, we should not rest on our oars with the illusion that the war has been won despite the level of the successes I have enumerated. “While government has displayed uncommon courage to relieve its appointees especially, in its agencies, of their positions and responsibilities, there still exist some level of infractions to financial regulations, the Public Procurement Act and other laws. These tend to diminish the efforts of government in this direction.” To end corruption, he said there was the need to bring about “innovative legislations, policies and measures to deal decisively with the lingering acts of corruption.” He added, “I would like to see the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation come up with innovative policies and measures to empower auditors to halt any payment that are clearly in breach of the Public Procurement Act, financial regulations, public service rules in particular, and other laws, in general. “For such auditors that compromise, or are complicit, such policies and measures should isolate them for disciplinary action which should not preclude prosecution.” On his part, Sagay said the consequence of corrupt acts included, “massive unemployment, unequipped clinics and hospitals, wretched schools, colleges and universities without facilities, bad roads, lack of electric power and so on.” He added, “Deaths on the roads, deaths at hospitals, deaths at maternity facilities follow and militants, kidnappers, armed robbers, murders, suicides are also a direct product of this Nigerian culture.” Sagay suggested that “the existing Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit structure should be adopted as the centre of Nigeria’s intelligence databank for sharing information and intelligence on corruption.” He said while whistle-blowing must be encouraged, government must also ensure “the participation of the people and civil society organisations in the realisation of a corrupt-free society.” The CDD director, Hassan, who was represented by the organisation’s Senior Programme Officer, Lukman Adefolahan, also said “a lot more still needs to be done to strengthen the fight against corruption, promote accountability and transparency,” despite “the great strides” that had been made in the fight against graft. Senator Kwari said the Senate through its committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes “is also reviewing all the anti-corruption and financial legislations with a view to bringing them in line with the current realities and making them more effective.” The legislator also said the Senate had formed a Legislative Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes Forum, comprising of the various committees with direct inter-phase with the anti-graft war agencies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 