Afeez Hanafi On Wednesday, Destiny Wenikefe was at daggers drawn with death as explosion rocked a gas filling station on Aduke Street, Ajegunle, a crowded neighbourhood in Lagos State. For a few seconds, the tall hefty man reeled on the ground struggling to break away from the cold hands of death. Fortunately, he won the battle, escaping with injuries to his leg and shoulder. The native of Bayelsa State was heading for a PoS outlet to withdraw money for his mother around 4pm that day when the explosion occurred and threw him off-balance. The 42-year-old man was among others who suffered various degrees of burns in the fire caused by a leakage from a gas cylinder. The inferno, which killed four persons – children and adults – according to the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, broke out the moment a resident made a phone call around the leakage spot. In an interview with our correspondent, who visited the community on Friday, Wenikefe, narrated his close shave with death, stating that hardly had he passed the gas station when the explosion erupted. He said, “I was going to a PoS stand to make withdrawals for my mummy. As I was going, I just passed the gas station when I heard an explosion. I felt the impact and was trying to run. It took me off my feet and I fell on the ground. It was drawing me and I was getting stiff. I struggled to run many times but fell down. I struggled by all means to escape. If I had given up, the fire would have consumed me. My fitness as a sportsman actually helped me. “I ran into a compound and that was how I escaped. I had minor burns on my leg. After a while, I felt something like pepper all over me and my body was getting stiff. I couldn’t sleep throughout that night. I called somebody to help me massage my body. As the person was trying to pull off my shirt, my left shoulder dislocated and I felt serious pain. “When you see death, you will put up a good fight. That was what I did. It was between life and death for me during that explosion. I was just telling myself that I needed to be save myself.” While Wenikefe was fast recuperating, same could not be said of seven-year-old Rasheed Abdulganiyu and four others admitted at Beebat Medical Centre in Ajegunle. Unlike the athlete, none of them could talk. They lay on their sickbeds bandaged, moving weakly under the grip of pains. Rasheed and his elder brother, Yusuf, 10, were said to be going to an Arabic School on Turner Eradiri Street, next to Aduke Street, when they were caught up in the explosion. A neigbour who was with Rasheed at the hospital, Khadijat, told City Round that his mother was at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital looking after Yusuf who suffered first degree burns. “Their father is running around to look for money. The boy has been groaning with pains all these while and he could not eat,” the neighbour added, using a hand fan to cool off Rasheed’s smothered back. As of 12 noon when our correspondent visited, there was outage and the generator had yet to be switched on to power the fans at the hospital’s ward. A teenage girl at the ward, Masidat Ibrahim, had first degree burns, with the major part of her body peeled away. She groaned each time she opened mouth to take food from her mother. Ibrahim was an apprentice hair dresser at a shop close to the gas station. Her father, Jimoh, said no financial help had come from government despite its promise to take care of the victims’ medical bills. He said, “I met with two people looking after their relations at Gbagada General Hospital; they said they were looking for money to pay for the treatment. That was why I didn’t bother to take my child there again. I bought everything for her treatment. She couldn’t eat by herself. ” Another victim admitted at the hospital, Rasheedat Lamidi, had gone to make her hair at the shop. The parents of a nine-year-old girl killed in the fire and identified simply as Ajike, were too distraught to speak to our correspondent. Their neigbour, Yakub Ahmed, told City Round that the deceased’s mother sent her to buy some confectionery from one Iya Quadri, who runs a wholesale provision store on Aduke Street. He said, “I was relaxing around the balcony of a friend’s house on Aduke Street when I suddenly heard the explosion. I peeped out to know what was happening and saw fire. I had never witnessed that kind of fire before. “I saw a man in distress running around; his skin had been peeled away by the fire. Ajike’s mother sells provisions on Tuner Eradiri Street. She sent Ajike to buy biscuits and some confectionery from Iya Quadri. “After the explosion, we looked around for her but we didn’t find her. It was around 10pm that we checked Iya Quadri’s shop and met her body there. From her posture, she was trying to pick some items when the fire caught her. The woman’s child who wanted to rescue her (Ajike) was also found dead. The woman also had serious burns Ahmed said Ajike was intelligent which made her death more painful. A resident of Aduke Street, Bode Daniel, said the casualties would have been few if there was a quick response from emergency agencies of the state government. He said, “Everybody in the neighbourhood struggled to put out the fire. We also got support from a sachet water company. Probably as a result of road rehabilitation going on, it took time before the Lagos State firefighters got there because they came from Ojuelegba. “There should be a fire service station in every local government. If there was quick response, the damage would have been less. The conditions of some of the victims are critical and we are praying that they survive.” Another resident, Folorunsho Emmanuel, blamed the incident on the government’s failure to regulate the activities of gas station operators. He stated, “Nigeria is totally messed up. The system is not working. The government is at fault for allowing people to have gas station in residential area. It is very wrong. Is the government not sensitive to the safety of the people? They should stop every gas station operating in residential areas. It is not only in Lagos; it is everywhere.” Mr Femi John, a former sole administrator of Ifelodun Local Government and aide to Senator Solomon Adeola, who is representing Lagos West Senatorial District, described the explosion as unfortunate. “All we need to do is to find a way for the victims to get good treatment. We will give him feedback on what we saw so he could do the necessary thing within his capacity. He will also visit the victims on Saturday (today). “Some of these victims cast their votes for him, so it is part of his responsibility to assist in one way or the other. We will also liaise with the state government to make sure they do something, possibly if they can move the victims to the general hospital for proper treatment. I heard the parents of some of the victims lamenting of cash. I am sure the senator will assist them,” he added. In a telephone interview with City Round on Friday, LASEMA General Manager, Dr Femi Okei-Osanyitolu, said the state government was providing free treatment for only victims admitted at the general hospitals. When told that some families of the patients at the general hospitals complained of paying for the medical bills, he said it was not true. He said, “They are receiving adequate treatment. We transferred an orphan that sustained burns from a private hospital to the burns unit in Gbagada today (Friday) for adequate treatment. With the report that I gathered from doctors attending to them, they are responding to treatment well. “To the best of my knowledge, four persons died. We met two at the scene and we lost two people out of the 23 we rescued while they were receiving treatment. The state government is taking care of the bills of those at teaching hospitals. We have informed the commissioner for health and the permanent secretary. “We now need to look at the rules and regulation guiding people selling gas in our society. They did not provide adequate safety measures. The state is now looking at it holistically to ensure that we don’t have a repeat of the incident.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 