In this report, SAMUEL AWOYINFA captures the chaotic situation at Sango-Ota, Ogun State The old Oshodi area of Lagos could be described in many ways. Apart from being a notorious hangout for hoodlums and petty criminals, it was known for its persistent traffic jams, noise and numerous makeshift stalls where hundreds of traders sold their wares. A few years ago, before the Babatunde Fashola administration in Lagos decided to inject some sanity into the area, Oshodi was synonymous with chaos. Commercial activities took place in an atmosphere of absolute disorderliness. Motorists and commuters often had to contend with holdups that lasted several minutes, even hours, at a stretch, just as a powerful and offensive odour emanating from several heaps of refuse abandoned in the streets constantly filled the air. The old Oshodi was also known for lawlessness, with commercial bus drivers, who were notorious for stopping at unapproved bus stops, either to drop or pick up passengers, leading the pack of lawbreakers. Of course, not many Lagosians will forget the activities of hoodlums who, under the influence of hard drugs and other intoxicants, daily attacked, robbed and raped unwary passersby at will under the popular Oshodi Bridge. Those criminals had continued to terrorise the area unchecked till Fashola intervened and flushed them out. However, it appears that some of the demons that were swept out of old Oshodi have resettled in Sango-Ota, which is located in the Ado Odo-Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, about 27 kilometres away. The first sign that Sango-Ota is gradually being remolded in the past image of Oshodi is the endless gridlock at the Tollgate end of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway.  Investigation shows that a number of factors are responsible for this situation. Not minding the fact that the Sango-Ota unit of the Federal Road Safety Corps is located about 50 metres away from the tollgate, commercial bus drivers have resorted to flouting traffic rules at this point. Some of them, especially those coming from Lagos, drop off their passengers at Tollgate and then make a u-turn. In doing so, they create a bottleneck, which makes it difficult for other vehicles to move freely. Also, other commercial bus drivers heading toward Sango-Ota and Ifo from Tollgate often drop off or pick up passengers indiscriminately without leaving enough room for other motorists to pass. Secondly, the existence of a busy market and a park for commercial motorcycles at Ilo-Awela junction has given rise to a permanent traffic jam on this stretch of the road. Most of the commercial bus drivers coming from Ifo, Sango-Ota, et cetera, often block vehicles coming from Ilo-Awela to link Tollgate enroute Lagos, thereby causing another serious traffic jam. Some of these drivers worsen the situation by driving against the Lagos-bound traffic from Alakuko. Apart from this, they, particularly petrol tanker drivers, park their vehicles, for reasons best known to them, on the road as they approach the front of a petrol filling station near Tollgate, thus preventing other vehicles from moving freely. Due to undue pressure, some portions at the Tollgate end of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expression are riddled with potholes, which have also contributed to the persistent traffic situation on the road. Leaving the area around Tollgate and moving toward Sango Under Bridge, as it is known locally, one observes that petty traders had virtually taken over the pavements on both sides of the road, with some displaying their wares and others trying hard to attract the attention of passersby. The presence of Lagos-bound commercial vehicles parked beside the bridge and drivers calling out their various routes to commuters, as well as commercial motorcyclists waiting to pick up passengers, added to the image of chaos. Investigation also shows that hoodlums have also laid siege to the spot known as Sango Under Bridge, just as it used to be in old Oshodi. And they had been busy harassing and robbing innocent people of their belongings before security operatives were permanently stationed there with an Armoured Personnel Carrier to maintain law and order. Another major challenge facing residents of Sango-Ota, is the sight of heaps of refuse around the road medians at Ojuore and along the Ilo-Awela dual carriageway, which fill the air with a horrible stench. Many fatal road accidents, involving mostly articulated vehicles, have also occurred at the Sango Tollgate end of the expressway and claimed many lives and destroyed property worth millions of naira. The latest one was caused by a loaded petrol tanker, which fell and burst into flames on November 14, 2019. No fewer than two persons and 17 vehicles were burnt in the accident. The incident, according to reports, drew tears from Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State when he visited the scene the next day. Abiodun also called on the Federal Government to cede the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway to Ogun and Lagos State governments in order to ensure speedy reconstruction of the road. Speaking on the chaos at the Sango Tollgate end of the expressway, the Ogun State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Mr Clement Oladele, disclosed that the corps had carried out several public enlightenment programmes in churches, mosques and motor parks to sensitise Nigerians on the need to obey traffic and safety rules. Oladele also said that although the topography of the area around Tollgate partially contributed to frequent occurrence of road accidents, the inability of some drivers to control articulated vehicles overloaded with goods, perhaps due to brake failure, was a major factor. He added, “That is why we have made recommendations to the Federal Ministry of Works, based on our study on that road, for a flyover at the tollgate end. “We equally recommended that there should be a clear demarcation between the vehicle track, pedestrian track and the road lay-by, where the commercial buses will be dropping and picking passengers. “If these demarcations are done, the chaotic situation at the tollgate will automatically end. The Federal Government has promised that the contractor handling the reconstruction of the road will return to site as soon as the rains stop. “This is not to say that our personnel at the tollgate will not apprehend any motorist who violates traffic rules. We will come down severely on such lawless motorists. “Everything boils down to attitude and discipline. Why must traders flock the road sides to sell, given the dangers inherent in it? Despite the several crashes and loss of lives at the tollgate, many traders still flock there.” Also, in his reaction, the Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Traffic Enforcement and Compliance Corps, Mr Babtunde Akinbiyi, stated that there was a need for attitudinal change and behavioural remodification among road users in the state. While he acknowledged that the Tollgate end of the expressway had its peculiar challenges, such as potholes, Akinbiyi noted that the cause of the build-up of traffic at Tollgate and Sango-Ota Under Bridge was due largely to attitudinal problems. Akinbiyi said, “Many motorists, especially the commercial bus drivers have attitudinal problems. They are selfish and they stop in unauthorised places, thereby obstructing the free flow of traffic. “We have continued to preach attitudinal change and behavioural remodification to these drivers and motorists in the state. We have also done the same to roadside traders, who are aware of the consequences of flouting road traffic and safety rules.” The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Abiodun, Kunle Somorin, told our correspondent that palliative work would be carried out at the Tollgate end of the road to improve the flow of traffic. He said, “The governor has directed that the Federal Road Safety Corps should not allow any vehicle to park on the side of the roads. TRACE is also making efforts to control traffic and possibly chase roadside traders away from the road.” On the issue of accumulated refuse on road medians, Somorin said that environmental sanitation exercises would be undertaken by various market associations in the state every Thursday and at every last Saturday of every month. “We have also appointed a Waste Disposal Management Agency for ease of evacuation and processing of wastes,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 