The National Youth Service Corps has ended the 2019 Batch C Stream II orientation course, even as governors across the states have counselled the new set of corps members on the need for good conduct. The latest set of corps members were deployed on November 5,  and took oath of allegiance on November 7. Speaking at the passing out parade on Monday (today), NYSC Coordinator in Kwara, Mrs. Tosin Ikupolati, advised corps members serving in the state against embarking on unnecessary journeys during their service year. Ikupolati gave the advice while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria on Monday at the Yikpata orientation camp during the closing ceremony and end of orientation parade for the 2019 Batch C, Stream II Orientation Course. According to the state coordinator, unnecessary journeys by corps members was one of the ways many of them lost their lives. She warned the corps members to always obtain permission from her before embarking on any journey during their service year. “We have lost lots of corps members in accidents, those that did not die lost parts of their bodies and became burdens to their parents. “There was a particular corps member that the Director-General had to sponsor abroad with N2m to have his ribs replaced. “A lot of things happened when they travel and they go without permission from the secretariat,” Ikupolati warned. Kwara State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who declared the orientation closed, was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mamman Jibril. In Osun, Governor Gboyega Oyetola promised regular payment of allowances of corps members posted to the state for the one-year mandatory service. Oyetola made the promise in Ede on Monday while speaking at the closing ceremony of the three-week orientation exercise. Represented by Mr. Wole Oyebamiji, Secretary to the State Government, Oyetola also promised that his administration would continue to create conducive environment for the corps members to operate. In Lagos, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu urged corps members posted to the state to serve the people in their host communities with diligence. Sanwo-Olu made the appeal at the NYSC camp in Iyana-Ipaja, as the three-week orientation programme came to an end. The governor was represented by Dr. Jimoh Yusuf, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations. The Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel warned corps members to avoid actions that could expose them to security risks during their Community Development Service. Emmanuel said this at the closing ceremony of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ orientation course for corps members deployed to the state at the NYSC permanent camp, Ikot Itie Udung, Nsit Atai on Monday. The governor, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youths and Sports, Mrs. Mary Bassey, said the state government would continue to ensure the security of all NYSC members posted to the state. He said the government had continued to secure the lives and property of everyone living in Akwa Ibom. Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu urged corps members to contribute to the socio-economic and political development of the state. Akeredolu made the plea on Monday at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp at Ikare Akoko during the terminal parade of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ (Stream II) orientation course. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Dotun Owanikin, urged the corps members to contribute productively during their service year. (NAN)