Stephane Beuvelet is the acting Managing Director of 9mobile. He spoke to IFE OGUNFUWA on the company’s investment in infrastructure and innovation to improve quality of service It has been almost a year that the new executives of 9mobile took over the company. Have you met your objectives? Basically, what has been happening for almost a year now since the take-over on the November 12, 2018 is that as a company, we had a full strategic plan in place and one of the achievements we have managed to make is mainly about resuming with communications as the company has been silent for quite a long time. We are ready to start again to engage our customers. You have probably seen some of the campaigns we did earlier this year around the magic promos; the partnership we had with WhatsApp, and we did some expansion of the network. We have also launched a couple of innovations as well. Recently, the company secured a loan of $230m from the African Finance Corporation. How do you intend to use it to improve network capacity? You will see that the first result of this injection in the next couple of weeks. This is because we are almost ready to start massive roll-out of our infrastructure; we are planning to roll out 4G at a minimum of 16 cities, some existing and others new cities. For example, we are going to launch 4G for Enugu, Sokoto, Owerri and Eket, among others. This would help the company to renew its coverage and network expansion as well as continuing to improve our quality of service. What were the criteria for the selection of these cities? We believe that these are the cities where there is much demand for data. We believe that 4G is an enabler for doing business, for entertainment and also solving problems in Nigeria. There is a long list of cities where we don’t have 4G and this is really good news for the company to be able to start again and be able to offer cheaper quality services for our customers. 9mobile is partnering Reanna Nigeria Limited to carry out a pilot of smart off-grid technologies. What do you intend to achieve with the project? This is part of our innovations for financial inclusion. What we found out was that in the past, there was no economical way to provide coverage in rural areas and we found out that with this partnership, it is a very effective way to provide coverage in rural areas. This is a proof of concept for this company to provide innovative solar-based satellite solutions, which is low-cost and will allow coverage in remote areas. Your company has lost a lot of subscribers. How do you hope to regain these subscribers and add new ones to the network? There are two reasons why we lost our subscribers. The first one was because of lack of investment and that is being corrected. We see that this is one of the main killers of the company and some of the roll-out examples that I gave you will definitely restore the trust and confidence of our customers in our capability to expand and sustain this operation. I think that is one thing that is very necessary. The second thing we are going to do is to intensify the communication because as you know, customers are very sensitive to what they see. They need to know what the latest offer is. A combination of aggressive roll-out and aggressive communication will allow us to resume growth. Like I said earlier, innovation is very important. 9mobile is very focused on providing services which are close to our core values, especially quality of service of our products. We want every customer that comes onboard to have an ultimately good experience. Also, we want to make sure that we can serve all our customers; so, the customer service is equally important. We want to understand the need of the customer; we want to be able to provide solutions. We are not providing services; we are providing solutions to the problems of Nigerians. I believe that innovation is an enabler for everybody; there is a lot of disruption coming from technology and I think we want to give all these innovations at the fingertips of the customers. How is 9mobile tackling poor quality of service? Quality of service is a function of the environment. A lot of disruption of the network, which is not specific to 9mobile, is due to continuous destruction of infrastructure. Road construction is always destroying our fibre and we have to manage this problem. We also encounter unstable power supply. We need to know that this is a very expensive country to operate in as a telecom company because most of our sites are powered with generators. We have to manage the environment and we need a lot of resilience which has a cost to get the best quality of service, which is what we are working on at 9mobile. The reason 9mobile has the best internet quality of service is because we are expanding the bandwidth to the maximum as much as possible and we have fast access and low-latency, among other factors, which are contributing to the quality of service. Some subscribers complained about data running out fast and airtime disappearing sometimes. What are you doing to address these issues? We actually did a survey recently and we tried to understand why we have these complaints. In fact, anytime there is a complaint, we look at what happened. Often, there is no abnormal depletion of data. The depletion of data is normal because the user must have used the data without knowing. That is why we are trying to increase the level of education and awareness. For example, when you have good quality network and you are opening a web page, because it is smooth and quick, all the advertisements will open at the same time and the videos will play well. This will consume more data. If you are not careful, depending on the settings of the phone, at night you may put your phone on and in the morning, you discovered that you have lost some data. Your phone must have uploaded the latest updates on some of your apps without you knowing. On our digital media platforms, we have created specific education videos to tell people what they can do on WhatsApp, Instagram, Snapchat and Facebook to avoid loss of data. What is the impact of multiple taxes on your business operation? The government needs to understand that the level of multiple taxation is too much. During our last analysis, we found 43 different taxes for telecom operators. This is too much and is actually affecting ease of doing business. Multiple taxation is one thing the government needs to look at because if we continue to tax and penalise the same company over and over again, it will affect operators that are struggling and not yet sustainable. Are there other innovations that you are looking at deploying to improve your network? There are a lot of them. 9mobile is known for its innovations; that has been one of our key values. We have a programme called the QIC meaning Quality of service, Innovation and Customer service that we are trying to drive right now. We have introduced some innovations this year and some are planned for the future. We launched the first e-commerce called e-shop and you can find basically all our products and services there. It has a very innovative financing offering where you can buy smartphones with 12-month instalments and we believe that it would be very interesting for some of our customers. There is also one where we enhanced our financial technology capabilities. There is a product called 9pay and now we’ve got a PSB licence, which will enhance our capabilities. That would be a very good innovation for us, to be able to provide financial services to the masses. We already use artificial intelligence. This year, we launched at least two initiatives on artificial intelligence. One is the chat bot, which Nigerians can use with 9mobile; they can interact directly on WhatsApp with our customer care. Also, for the farmers, we have the new service called Iska weather service. With a shortcode, you can find out what the weather would be like in the next couple of days and it is a quite popular service which uses artificial intelligence as well. How are you increasing awareness of all these innovations? We have to leverage media and intensify our communication. There is a very aggressive plan to increase the awareness of our products and services. With the new injection, we are intensifying our communication. Tell us more about the 9pay and your financial inclusion strategy. 9pay used to be in partnership with banks and now it is going to be migrated to the new payment service bank. It would be enhanced as it used to be a payment platform for payment services. In fact, we are the only network in Nigeria that you can leverage to buy apps with your Android phone in the Play Store. That means you can buy any app in the Play Store using 9pay. Now, we are going to enhance and improve even more on the service. The PSB would enable us not only be able to do payments; payments using the QR code and Point of Service terminals to be able to do cash-in cash-out and be able to do peer-to-peer payment. We will still partner the banks as we cannot offer all the services alone. Therefore, for pure financial services like loans, and very specific insurances, we would partner the banks. When do you intend to fully launch the PSB? We got the approval in principle recently. Now, we are in the middle of the project and we expect to launch very soon. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  