Hindi Livinus, Yola Governor Ahmadu Fintiri on Monday inaugurated 23 commissioners, nearly six months after he became governor of Adamawa State. In a ceremony held inside the Banquet Hall of the Government House, Yola, Fintiri said the commissioners came on board after a painstaking process designed to constitute state executive council to deliver the primary objective of the administration. He asked the commissioners to keep in mind the 11-point agenda of his administration which hinge on security, free education, zero tolerance for corruption and justice for all. He also charged them to join hands with him to reverse the rot and precarious financial condition of a state he inherited with huge debt bill of N115bn. Adamu Atiku, son of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, was named Commissioner for Works and Energy Development. Mohammed Umar will head the Ministry for Local Government Affairs, while Mr Elijah Tumba takes the Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, Reintegration and Human Services. Dr Ishaya Dabari was posted to the Ministry for Finance and Budget; Sunday Mathew, Housing and Urban Development and Prof Isa Abdullahi, Ministry for Health and Human Services. Others include Hassan Kaigama (Water Resources), Dr Umar Garba (Information and Strategy), Lami Patrick (Women Affairs and Social Development) and Abdullahi Prambe (Ministry for Rural Infrastructure and Community Development). Ministry of Livestock and Aquaculture Development has Usman Yahaya Diyajo as commissioner, Tertiary and Professional Education (Umaru Iya Daware), Land and Survey (Ibrahim Mijinyawa), while Mustapha Musa Jika will head the Ministry for Transportation. Others include Sunusi Faruk (Youths and Sports Development), Bappa Dalhatu Isa (Mineral Resources Development), Aloysius Babadoke (Special Duties), and Shuaibu Audu (Environment and Natural Resources Development). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 