Peter Dada Akure Tension has gripped the residents of Akure, the state capital, Owo and other towns in Ondo State as members of the dreaded Boko Haram have allegedly planned to attack some banks in major towns in the state at any moment. According to a letter circulating on various social media platforms, which was addressed to the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Undie Adie, the planned attack was to take place on Friday (today), November 1, 2019. It was gathered that the security letter which was sent from a sister security agency to the state police command, was for the police to take a proactive step to avert the planned attack. According to the letter, the attack was targeted at banks in Akure and Owo, and some towns at the state boundaries. The letter dated October 29, 2019, was entitled “Planned robbery attacks on some commercial banks in Ondo State by suspected Boko Haram elements.” The letter read, “Intelligence availed the command revealed planned armed robbery attacks on some commercial banks in the state by suspected Boko Haram elements any moment from now. “The group also planned to engage in kidnapping and car snatching along major routes in the state, including Owo/Benin axis, Isua/Ikare and Auge/Ayire in an effort to raise funds for its terrorist/insurgency campaign in the country. “It was further revealed that the insurgents/terrorists hibernating between Kogi and Ondo states, have concluded plan to carry out a major armed robbery operation in Owo Town, Owo  Local Government area, Ondo State on November 1, 2019 being the market day.” [READ ALSO] Pregnancy claim: Keep my family name out of your mouth, Davido warns Ogundamisi In a reaction, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, said he was unaware of any letter sent to the command. He, however, said the command was already working round to ensure lives and property of the people of the state were adequately protected. The PPRO said, “I am not aware of any letter but our men are always on their guards and we have set out machinery to ensure that throughout this ‘ember months’, there is no security problem.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com