Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, says the role of the media is sometimes more important than that of government. He, therefore, stated that the House of Representatives under his leadership would continue to protect the media and its rights guaranteed under the constitution. Gbajabiamila said this on Monday in Abuja at the launching of a book titled, ‘The Powers That Be’, authored by the Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief of The SUN Publishing Ltd, Onuoha Ukeh. The Speaker’s assurances come amid criticisms from rights groups including Amnesty International that the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has witnessed some of the worst cases of harassment of journalists. The Senate has also come under attack from a large section of Nigerians for trying to gag the social media as well as recommending a death sentence for purveyors of hate speech. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the lawmaker representing Bende federal constituency of Abia State, Benjamin Kalu, said the media remains the fourth arm of government and must live up to its responsibilities. He said, “The 9th House of Representatives under my leadership sees the media as more than a mere source of news but as an instrument of unity, peace and national development. We consider the media to be the 4th arm of government with a critical role to play that can even be more important than that of those in government. “This is why we stated this in Section 2.14 of our legislative agenda. We will partner the media in our joint task for nation-building. We will ensure that freedom of information is strengthened and the media is not gagged. “But while we do so, we all must also take responsibility to ensure that the media is not used to perpetuate pessimistic truths but reinforce positive narratives.” Speaking earlier, the author said he decided to write the book as a contribution to nation-building. Ukeh said the book, which also contains some of his published articles, would be a good handbook for those in office as well as those seeking public office.