Nike Popoola United Bank for Africa has introduced a self-printing debit card machine, targeted at encouraging increased use of debit cards which also offers more options to pay. The bank also said it would continue to invest in cutting edge technology for efficient and improved service delivery to its customers and the business community. The Chief Executive Officer, UBA Africa, Victor Osadolor, introduced this initiative during the opening ceremony of the 2019 Lagos International Trade Fair, in which UBA was the headline sponsor. Osadolor  said the new self-printing debit card machine would allow for seamless business transactions with more value to customers and businesses. He stated that the world was tilting into a knowledge- based economy, adding that businesses that would survive in the 21st century must invest in technology to remain competitive. He also commended the Federal Government’s efforts at improving the nation’s investment climate, saying this was the reason the country was currently ranked 15thplace upwards in the global ease of doing business index. He also added that the bank would continue to support initiatives aimed at boosting trade in the country. “We are creating superior value for all our customers, because we believe they are key to our everyday operations,” he said. He added that the bank’s small and medium scale enterprise banking unit had been actively supporting small businesses with industry-specific loans that ensure maximum impact. Osadolor said that UBA also keyed into government intervention funds to expand access to credit facilities at competitive interest rates, while providing services such as advisory and technological infrastructure that helped to reduce the cost of doing business. He said, “Most of our customers have enjoyed free advisory services that have helped them navigate the very difficult business terrain. We also have businesses, latching on to our technological assets to improve their services as well as foster growth.” Some of the guests who attended the event were Lagos State Deputy Governor, Mr Obafemi Hamzat; President, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Babatunde Ruwase; Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum; and Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Lagos State, Lola Akande among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  