John Alechenu, Abuja An Abuja-based civil rights advocacy group, the Human Rights Writers’ Association of Nigeria, has faulted the decision of the Federal Capital Territory Administration to restrict the operation of commercial tricycles to a few areas within the city. The National Coordinator, HURIWA, Emmanuel Onwubiko, who disclosed the position of the group in a statement on Thursday, said the policy was well-thought-out before it was implemented. He argued that the enforcement of the policy was being done at a time of growing unemployment and the fact that alternative means of transportation had yet to be fully provided. “The restriction on the operation of commercial motorcyclists, also known as Keke-NAPEP, to just a few places by the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Alhaji Bello Mohammed, is insensitive and well-thought-out. It is irresponsible and elitist,” Onwubiko said. The group expressed shock that such a major policy, which would inflict pain and penury on hundreds of thousands of Nigerians doing legitimate business in the nation’s capital, was adopted without first implementing a workable remedial action to mitigate the untold hardship. The statement read in part, “The policy is also discriminatory, because it is targeted at a group of poor urban dwellers, even as the policy infringes on Section 42 of the Constitution, which states: ‘A citizen of Nigeria of a particular community, ethnic group, place of origin, sex, religion or political opinion shall not, by reason only that he is such a person:- (a) be subjected either expressly by, or in the practical application of any law in force in Nigeria or any executive or administrative action of the government, to disabilities or restrictions to which citizens of Nigeria of other communities, ethnic groups, places of origin, sex, religious or political opinions are not made subject…” In response, the Consultant on Public Engagement on Sensitisation of the Transport Management Situation to the FCT Minister, Ahmad Sajoh, denied allegation that the policy was not well-thought-out. He said, “This policy was well-thought-out and all stakeholders were consulted and an agreement was reached before the implementation began. It may interest you to know that 60 new buses and 5,000 new taxis are joining the system shortly. Twenty of these taxis will be operated by ex-Keke NAPEP operators to ply dedicated routes in the Apo area. “The transport master plan of the FCT, just like in most capital cities of the world, stipulates that certain kinds of vehicles cannot ply the highways. All we have simply done is to restrict their activities to certain areas; we have not banned their activities outright.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 