Tunde Oyekola Justice Sikiru Oyinloye of the Kwara State High Court on Thursday sentenced an Internet fraudster, Kayode Abolarin, to six month’s imprisonment. The court found Abolarin guilty of the fraud charges preferred against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ilorin zonal office, and convicted him accordingly. The EFCC had told the court that Abolarin, who pleaded not guilty during his arraignment, later begged the commission for a plea bargain having considered the proof of evidence gathered against him by the anti-graft body. The commission’s prosecutor, Christopher Mschelia, said the  charge was amended to read thus; “That you, Kayode Abolarin, on or about February 6, 2019, in Ilorin, within the jurisdiction of the High Court of Kwara State,  did attempt to cheat by impersonation when you presented yourself as Dawn Groff and sent an email to one Gregory Carter, an American citizen through your acclaimed email groffdawn77@gmail.com, that Budweiser Drink is carrying out a vehicle advertisement programme, a representation you knew to be false, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 95 of the Penal Code and punishable under Section 324 of the same Penal Code.” Abolarin pleaded guilty to the amended charge. While reviewing the facts of the case, Olamide Sadiq, an operative of the EFCC, said, “My Lord, on February 4, 2019, based on intelligence reports, operatives of the commission arrested the defendant and others on Agric Estate in Ilorin for their involvement in Internet scam. “We analysed his phone and laptop and discovered that he created four emails for himself. The email conversations were printed in his presence and we discovered that he sent several fraudulent messages to his victims.” Justice Oyinloye said the prosecution had proved its case beyond reasonable doubt, adding that the anti-graft body linked the defendant with the crime. He said, “The evidence of the PW1, Olamide Sadiq, who is an operative of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission was not challenged or controverted. “This court found you, Kayode Abolarin, guilty of one count bordering on Internet fraud and hereby convicted and sentenced you to six months’ imprisonment.” The judge also ordered that the convict forfeit his phones, laptops and a Lexus car to the Federal Government of Nigeria. The sentence was without an option of fine. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   