Ada Wodu, Calabar The Director, Planning, Research & Statistics, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Dr Famous Eseduwo, has explained that the ministry could not fix all bad roads across the country at the same time because of the numerous challenges facing the sector. He gave the explanation in Calabar at the opening of a four-day National Council on Works meeting with the theme ‘Infrastructure As The Pathway For Prosperity.’ Eseduwo said, “The problems we have in the road sector are myriad and sometimes you won’t know that something is being done until maybe at a reasonable level when you have seen the signs on the ground. “But I want to assure you that progress has been made from last year to now and we are still here because we have developed the perspectives of looking at our problems continuously. It’s a growing concern. So definitely, there are going to be challenges and we are there also to look at the challenges. READ ALSO: Court grants Maina N1bn bail “Like what I said, the challenges are like a growing concern. We have a country called Nigeria and we can see that Calabar/Akwa Ibom are two states in the South-South geopolitical zone and we have six states in the zone and you can see that the entire road challenges cannot be taken care of at the same time. What is important is that, something is going on. “The area is being remembered, so even if the length of the roads is not being taken at the same time, there is the hope that it will continue to grow from strength to strength. Most of us came by land and we came with three Coaster buses. All our equipment were conveyed through land and again some of us are from South-south. We know the situation on the ground but definitely, we cannot get all that we need at the same time. It is going to be step by step.” In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Cross River State Ministry of Works, Dr Ihort Achu, said “We are here to formulate policies and implement them together. We are just gradually entering the dry season. We don’t do roads during the rainy season and Cross River State usually has shorter months of rains but now you notice, even this month, we are still having rains. Sitting in this meeting will not construct our roads now. It is for us to sit and discuss how to go about it. “We have to think of different hypothesis on how to go about it. We used to use asphalt, but recently, they started talking of the use of cement to construct roads so that they can last longer. If we have had policies before and they did not work, this kind of meeting will look at such policies and see how to change them to fit current times.”