Samson Folarin and Tunde Oyekola Residents of the Pipeline Road, Ipaja, Lagos State, were shaken on Monday after a Mack tanker conveying 33,000 litres of suspected stolen Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) exploded in front of the Honeyland Schools. Three vehicles and some property were burnt in the inferno before the intervention of emergency management workers from both the state and federal agencies. PUNCH Metro gathered that the tanker was being driven out of the pipeline area when an electric wire fell on it. A spark from the wire was said to have ignited a fire, which led to the explosion around 3am. One of our correspondents learnt that the hoodlums, who vandalised the pipeline, had successfully driven six fuel-laden tankers away from the community without any incident, but the seventh tanker exploded and caused the inferno. Residents lamented the complicity of security agents and oil workers, claiming that a Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation hose was used to syphon the fuel from the broken valve into the tankers. READ ALSO: Magodo CDA raises alarm as land-grabbers convert green belt into estate PUNCH Metro counted three burnt cars at the scene, while the carcass of the tanker was abandoned in the middle of the road. The cars, it was gathered, belonged to taxi drivers at the Ipaja motor park. Two plastic drums of water in a house beside the scene were melted by the heat of the fire. The scene was cordoned off by security officials. A former Chairman of the Ipaja motor park, Saliu Mustapha, whose Toyota Picnic was burnt, said the vandals were heavily armed. Mustapha stated, “Some loaded tankers had already gone with fuel. This tanker was the last. However, the tanker ahead of it mistakenly ran into a wire across the road, snapping it in the process. “That was how the wire fell on this tanker, which was following closely behind. There was a spark and then an explosion. “People wanted the driver to get to the main road to reduce the damage to property, but the fire was too much and everybody ran away. “When security operatives attempted to apprehend the driver, he brought out a gun and threatened to shoot anybody who came near him.” He noted that aside from his vehicle, a Toyota Camry and Hyundai car were also burnt. The driver lamented that his source of livelihood was gone and wondered how he would survive. He added, “The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps officials were around when the hoodlums came. They said they could not face those boys because of their sophisticated weapons. “I have come to the conclusion that there is no security in this country. We don’t have any security.” Another eyewitness, Oladokun Idowu, said the vandals had been coming to the community for the past three days. He explained that they were backed by some men, who appeared to have military training. Idowu stated, “There was power supply at the time the fire started. We called the fire service and they extinguished it. We don’t know the owner of the burnt tanker. It does not even have a number plate. “The government is to blame for what is happening. If the government had brought soldiers here, this would not have happened without anybody challenging the vandals.” However, a volunteer emergency worker told one of our correspondents that the truck had a number plate, which was removed by some persons. The official, who refused PUNCH Metro access into the restricted area for safety consideration, said the number was embossed in certain parts of the truck. A distant camera shot of the truck, however, revealed that the owner could be a member of the Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, as the union’s sticker was conspicuously pasted by the passenger’s side. One of our correspondents visited the spot where the pipeline was vandalised and observed the NSCDC and NNPC officials working there. The NNPC hose alleged to have been used for the operation was still on the ground as two men battled to fill the dug up area with mud. Senior officials at the spot declined comments. The spokesperson for the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Nosa Okunbor, said the agency’s Dolphin Squad in Lagos West responded to the incident around 8.18am. He said no casualties were recorded as residents rallied round to control the fire before the arrival of the combined response team of LASEMA and the Lagos State Fire Service. Okunbor stated, “On arrival, the residents readily gave way for the combined response team of LASEMA and the fire service to perform their duties. “After extinguishing the fire and commencing the blanketing process of the entire area, LASEMA is conducting a post-disaster assessment.” Okunbor said the recovery of the remaining fuel in the burnt tanker was ongoing. The Public Affairs Officer of the Lagos State Fire Service, Muinat Adeleke-Ashimi, who spoke for the acting Director, Margaret Adeseye, said the agency was alerted to the incident around 4am, adding that the fire was extinguished around 6.30am. “Firemen were mobilised from the Ikotun, Agege and Abesan fire stations. They were also joined by the Federal Fire Service officers,” she added. A senior official of the NNPC, who asked not to be identified, said security officials around the area had been arrested. The official said, “The fire has been extinguished and the asset restored. The security operatives around that area have been arrested. I am sure this will serve as a deterrent to others. “We don’t joke with the security of all our pipelines across the country. It is just unfortunate that people, who want to perpetrate crime, will go to any extent to do it.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, declined comment on the arrest, saying investigation was ongoing. He explained that the police were working with the NNPC and other agencies to get to the root of the incident. The spokesperson for the NSCDC promised to call back our correspondent but had yet to do so as of press time. Meanwhile, the Kwara State Government has directed the state’s fire service to commence routine inspection of public and private organisations to ensure that they have fire extinguishers on their premises to tackle fire incidents. The directive was contained in a statement issued on Sunday by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works and Transport, Dr Yusuf Manjo, after he had inspected the Oke-Aluko Secondary School, Ilorin, whose buildings were gutted by fire on Saturday night. The statement, signed by the Press Secretary in the ministry, Mrs Mansurat Amuda-Kannike, said the Kwara State Fire Service saved the school from total destruction by its timely intervention around 8pm on Saturday, as some classrooms and the administrative block were razed. The administrative block and the science laboratory of the school were severely destroyed by the fire. The Director of the state fire service, Alhaji Waheed Yakub, explained that the quick intervention of the agency prevented the spread of the fire and limited the damage to only the laboratory. He advised the management of the schools to be fire security conscious when leaving the premises in order to prevent fire outbreaks after official working hours. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 