Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The All Progressives Congress has said the Governor Abdullahi Ganduje-led five-member fact-finding committee on the crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the party stands and is independent. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Lanre Issa-Onilu, stated this in response to an inquiry by our correspondent on Wednesday. Recall that the APC National Working Committee had, at its meeting in Abuja last Wednesday, raised the committee chaired by the Kano State governor. Other committee members are the Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari; former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi; former governor of Borno State and serving senator, Kashim Shettima; and a former member of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wadada (Secretary). READ ALSO: No border reopening, until Benin, others respect protocols – FG There had been concerns about the status of the committee and its modalities as nothing had been heard of it since inauguration. But Issa-Onilu clarified that the committee was independent and would determine its mode of operation without interference from the party. He said, “They have been given the terms of reference; the committee is an independent one and would determine its mode of operation. That is why it is made up of people of people who have distinguished themselves in public service.” Asked when the committee would begin work, Issa-Onilu stated, “You wouldn’t know if the committee had been working behind the camera. It is for the committee to set its pace and style. What we expect is a report and (we) won’t interfere in their job.” There has been growing tension between the camp of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo and loyalists of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Recently, Oshiomhole accused the state government of leading thugs to the venue of convocation at Edo University, Iyamho, to embarrass him. Fourteen members of the Edo State House of Assembly loyal to Oshiomhole were excluded from the inauguration of the assembly, where a speaker against their wish was elected. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 