Tunde Ajaja Residents of Isheri community along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway have faulted the claims by the Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority that their community was flooded because they built their houses on flood plains. They also described as untrue the OORBDA’s statement that the flooding was partly a result of climate change that had resulted into exceptionally high and prolonged rainfall experienced nationwide and had forced the Lagos Lagoon water level to rise and spread into the flood-prone areas of Ogun River. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, OORBDA, Mr Olufemi Odumosu, had in a statement on October 21 said the identified flood plains had “continuously been taken over by property developers who built residential estates indiscriminately and recklessly in the areas out of ignorance or sheer underestimation of the devastating effects of flooding, causing obstruction to the natural free flow pathways of water.” He added, “In fact, some of the project coverage areas being used for wetlands agricultural development have been encroached upon by the menace of land grabbers at Owiwi, Oyan Dam, Itoikin, Igan Alade and Middle Ogun projects.” But, the Isheri community residents, whose properties had been flooded by the release of water from the Oyan Dam, faulted OORBDA’s position, saying Lagos and Ogun state governments sold the land to them. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, the Chairman, Riverview Estate Residents and Stakeholders’ Association, Mr Abayomi Akinde, flanked by the property owners in the community, explained that it was the mismanagement of the dam that was responsible for the flooding. He added that instead of releasing water from the dam between November and July as agreed by all stakeholders at a 2017 summit, “the OORBDA has refused to do so because it was (allegedly) operating the reservoir as a fish pond which generates huge profit to the organisation.” Akinde added, “The OORBDA should strive to exploit the best practices in the monitoring of Oyan Dam to stem the tide of flooding in the affected communities in Lagos State as enjoyed in the 1990s.” Responding, the Director of Services, OORBDA, Mr Femi Dokunmu, who agreed that there was a stakeholders’ summit, added that it was better “to look at the issue than shift blame.” He added, “The question is if the people do not see the dam as a means to hold some water back or do they want us to empty our reservoir? People want us to help them keep some water upstream. Even if we emptied that reservoir in the dry season, the rainfall this year would still have gone above the capacity of the reservoir and we would still have allowed the water downstream.” Asked about using the dam for fishing, he said the cage fish farming had been there for over 10 years and that it had no connection with the flooding. “That water had been there even before we started having cage fish farming at all. They should understand why they are having the flooding and identify the solution,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  