Samuel Awoyinfa The Nigerian-Chinese investors have identified factors hindering smooth trade relations between importers and exporters involving Nigeria and China. The investors, who spoke in Lagos at a forum held at China Town, a sprawling mall in Ojota, also saw stakeholders proffer solutions to some of the challenges. Some Nigerian investors at the event lamented the difficulty in procuring Chinese visas, as they noted that the processes involved were cumbersome. They also said that some Chinese investors, who would have loved to do business with Nigerians and in Nigeria were not familiar with the official regulatory requirements. They also noted that when there were breaches of agreement, it was difficult to know who or where to direct such complaints. However, the Chairman, Chinese Investors Association, Ronnie Liu, said that the association was working with relevant stakeholders including the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria to expand and create mutual business relationship between Nigeria and China. He added that the association had a newspaper in which information about Nigerian and Chinese businesses were being published regularly to keep investors of both countries informed. He said, “We are interested in taking the business relationship between Nigerian and Chinese investors to the future. “That is why we organised this forum, in which we can identify those things that are working for us and those challenges that we need to address. “Definitely all the challenges that have been identified we shall be discussing them with our consulate and take them further from there.” The Director-General, MAN, Mr Segun Ajai-Kadir, who commended the association for organising the forum, noted that it had opened up areas that needed to be tackled which included understanding the regulatory trade policies between the two countries by investors. He said MAN had always championed the creation of an enabling environment for businesses to thrive, adding that the Nigerian-Chinese trade relationship would be of mutual benefit. He said, “There should be adequate information on both sides to help investors. This will foster mutual benefit between Nigeria and China, with Nigerians providing what the Chinese need and Chinese investors providing what Nigerians need.” The Director, Institute of Nigeria-China Development Studies, University of Lagos, Prof. Olufemi Saibu, said the institute was working to improve the trade relationship between investors in China and Nigeria. He stated that the institute would establish an information centre to assist investors from both countries on trade regulatory requirements and other trade opportunities. He said, “I have been to China, and I know their challenges in doing business with Nigerian investors. The institute is working to improve trade relations between Nigeria and China. “We are planning a business-to-business forum, which would involve investors and relevant stakeholders from both countries.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 