The Lagos State Government has promised victims of Friday’s fire incident at Okobaba, Ebute-Meta area of the state, that the visit of its officials are not intended to lead to the displacement of the marketers. The government says it is handling the fire incident, which occurred at Okobaba, Ebute-Meta by Jebba, so as to bring some succour to victims. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said this on Sunday while on visitation to the site of the incident to commiserate with the victims. Sanwo-Olu was represented by the Commissioner for Finance, Rabiu Olowo, that of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Idris Salako and the Special Adviser to the Governor on Civic Engagement, Aderemi Adebowale-Owoeye. They were accompanied by the Chairman, Lagos Mainland Local Government, Mrs Omolola Essien. The governor,who spoke through Olowo,described the incidence as unfortunate, noting that it destroyed houses and businesses. SEE ALSO: One dies as OPC, Hausa clash at Okobaba area of Lagos He said that the presence of the Special Adviser on Civic Engagement was to ensure continuous dialogue with the people on ways to bring them happiness. The governor also said that the presence of the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development was to understand the situation of the environment, all with the aim of bringing lasting solution. “It is learnt that there has been cases of fire incidence for three times within three months, which is too much. ”I have asked my aides to come and have on-the-spot situation and report back to me. ”We are here to see exactly what happened, how bad it is, in a bid to understand the present situation so that we can also learn what we can do to bring some succour to the people affected. ”It is not very good at sight, what we will hope to do is to understudy the root cause and we are going to attack it from the root cause, so that this kind of thing will not happen again. “We are not here to displace you,” he said. Also speaking on behalf of the fire victims, Abdulhakeem Mohammed appealed for government’s assistance, adding that the people affected “are really poor group.” “We are happy that the governor has sent representatives to have on-the-spot assessment. “Initially, our fear was that you were going to send us packing from here, but with your assurance, we are hopeful. “All we need is government compensation. The people living here are about 500 families and are masses who can barely afford three square meals a day. “We have nowhere to go,” Mohammed pleaded. (NAN)