Nike Popoola The Central Bank of Nigeria has set a minimum level of N10bn paid-up capital for Mortgage Guarantee Companies. A Mortgage guarantee firm is a financial institution established to provide guarantees or partial guarantees to lenders against losses resulting from borrowers’ default on residential mortgage loans. According to the CBN, the objective of an MGC is to support mortgage originators such as primary mortgage banks and commercial banks to increase mortgage lending. The CBN said the MGCs could engage in activities such as full or partial guaranteeing of residential mortgage loans and investment in government securities and other investments. They can also provide technical assistance to lenders on credit and business development-related activities to increase industry expertise, and other activities as may be prescribed by the CBN from time to time, according to the apex bank. The CBN, in a circular to all stakeholders in the mortgage sector, titled ‘Regulations for the operations of mortgage guarantee companies in Nigeria’, said the new financial requirements might be varied as considered necessary. It stated that the new requirements were a minimum paid-up capital of N10bn; non-refundable application of N100,000; non-refundable licensing fee of N100m and change of name fee of N50,000. It said the new regulations were in furtherance of the exposure draft on the operations of Mortgage Guarantee Companies, which was issued on October 17, 2018. The CBN added that the MGC must not engage in activities such as acceptance of demand; savings and time deposits; grant consumer, commercial or mortgage loans, among others. It stated that an MGC must maintain a capital adequacy ratio of more than 100 per cent, determined by comparing the available solvency margin with the required solvency margin. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 