The Publicity Secretary of the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ini Ememobong, speaks with PATRRICK ODEY on the Appeal Court’s judgment ordering a rerun in the Essien Udim Local Government Area as regard the Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District election How did your party receive the recent Court of Appeal judgment on Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District where election was cancelled and re-run ordered in a local government? The position of the party is that the Court of Appeal by that decision has aligned itself with the reality that the Peoples Democratic Party and the Independent National Electoral Commission presented in court. The reality is that there were widespread malpractice occasioned by Senator Godwin Akpabio and the All Progressives Congress. And that was the PDP’s case in court; that he could not have claimed the number of votes he claimed. I mean lawful votes. Therefore, the elections in Essien Udim local government area were marred by irregularities and the Court of Appeal agreed to that and accepted results in nine out of the 10 local Government Areas. It should be an indictment on the part of Senator  Akpabio for the court to order election in his own local government alone. It goes to show he and his party are a major threat to the political process and survival of democracy in Akwa Ibom State. Therefore, for election to have been cancelled only in his local government out of 31 local governments in the state, we feel he should be ashamed of himself because he is becoming a threat to the democracy in our state. What is the implication of that judgment to your party? The implication is that we are going back for the re-run election in Essien Local Government area of the state as directed by the Court of Appeal in Calabar, Cross River State. The good thing for us as a party is that the votes of Chris Ekpenyong, our candidate in the senatorial election, are already there. We are only going to widen the margin of that victory. There are people who feel that the judgment was an indictment on the Independent National Electoral Commission. What’s your take on that? It couldn’t have been an indictment on INEC. The umpire brought evidence to the court to show how their workers were brutalised and election materials carted away. How could that have been an indictment on them? Ballot papers were thumb-printed but INEC stood its ground and said no, our officers were brutalised, observers were manhandled and electoral materials were carted away and that was why we cancelled the election in the Essien Udim Local Government area, and the court said INEC was even too magnanimous to have accepted votes from the local government. Given that the election is to hold in his local government, which could make it difficult for another party to win. Do you think your party can win? Well, I would say that is impossible, at the risk of sounding proud. But I tell you the same way we won the election before is the same way we are going to win this one. We have a margin of victory from the nine local government areas of the senatorial district. We will win in Essien Udim local government area. We have supporters there and we have structures there  as well. Even though you have supporters and structure there, the local government is Senator Akpabio’s stronghold. Don’t you think that would make a difference? How do you determine a man’s stronghold? If it his stronghold how come he couldn’t win election there? You should be able to win election in your stronghold and you don’t get an order of court for a rerun in that same stronghold. Electoral materials were hijacked, people and observers were beaten and results were manipulated, so can you say that is a stronghold? How strong is their hold when a rerun has been ordered by the court? If it is his stronghold, it therefore goes to show they were the people who did the malpractice. Does PDP feel bad that the judgment went the way it did? Actually, that was our case before the court, so we welcome the judgment and we are waiting for the consequence of the judgment which is the rerun. We are confident we are going to win. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 