Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigerian Academy of Engineering has asked the Federal Government to ensure adequate investment in the energy value chain and address limitations to meter asset scheme in the country. The group said it had become necessary for power distribution companies to prioritise processes and initiatives geared towards adding value and fostering customer satisfaction. The President of NAE, Prof. Fola Lasisi, at the academy’s public lecture in Lagos, said such investment was necessary for Nigerians to live a better life. Lasisi stated that if the problem of poor power distribution network was solved, many of the social challenges confronting the country would be resolved. “The NAE will continue to provide input and leadership in national technological issues and policies at the highest level possible, through contributions to science, engineering and technology ideas in Nigeria and by extension, globally,” he added. The Chief Executive Officer, Ikeja Electric Distribution Plc, Dr Anthony Youdeowei, said the approach to transforming the energy sector should be hinged on service delivery, building a customer-centric business and deploying technology to improve operational efficiency. Speaking on ‘Building a sustainable and viable electricity distribution network’, Youdeowei said power distribution companies lacked the capacity to meter all customers; hence, the need to involve third parties in that specific role. He said, “Government should allow the metering process to work. There is a need to redefine the distribution business and improve customer metering. Proper and complete privatisation by letting market forces to decide and ensuring that there is inflow of capital into the entire energy value chain. “Amazon, Uber were initially loss making but attracted huge investments because the numbers and the projections were believable. Project transparency and integrity in all dealings with customers and leveraging cutting-edge technology in improving and optimising business processes is important. Also, we need to deploy technology in areas of the business where there is heavy dependence on human intervention.” He disclosed that the Ikeja Electricity had kick-started the provision of bilateral premium power that required provision of quality services to clusters of customers within the network. The Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Folashodun Shonubi, who is also an engineer, stated that there was a need to improve the power sector through reorientation of people in the power value chain. He said engineering was not the problem but those involved in the processes of the sector. He said professionals should groom young engineers through practical exposure and exchange of experiences that would prepare them for the future. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 