Maiharaji Altine, Gusau The All Progressives Congress has described the allegations laid against the former governor, Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State by the current governor, Bello Matawalle as baseless and unfounded. On Thursday, Governor Matawalle said his predecessor’s visits to the state often result in bloodshed. In a sharp reaction, the state APC not only refuted the accusations but has also described Governor Matawalle’s statement against the former governor as baseless and unfounded. In a press conference organised by APC on Saturday, its publicity secretary, Ibrahim Danmalikin Gidan Goga said, Governor Matawalle was only trying to cover his alleged inability to resolve the security situation in the state, by shifting the blame to the former governor. READ ALSO: I’ll arrest Yari if killings continue in Zamfara –Matawalle Danmaliki maintained that the threat by the governor to arrest Yari by himself even without security personnel was very funny and dramatic, stressing that, “this statement is not supposed to come from him (Matawalle).” According to Danmaliki, the former governor had done his best to stop banditry in the state considering the huge amount of money he spent on security during his tenure. He, therefore, advised Governor Matawalle to concentrate on the development of the state and stop wasting his time in fighting the former governor and his supporters. He added, “Since Matawalle assumed office six months ago, he has not been able to execute any project with a direct bearing on the people of the state.” Danmaliki also called on the security agencies in the state, not to allow themselves to be used by the Governor against the opposition. He particularly advised the state Police Commissioner to watch his actions. Danmaliki also stated that the former governor would not stop coming to Zamfara State whenever he wished to do so, no matter what Governor Matawalle would say or do about the visits. He explained that the former Governor has a larger following than any other politician in the state and that was why Governor Matawalle was always scared of the large turnout of people at Yari’s house whenever he was in the state.