Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt There was a violent protest in the Rumuosi community in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State on Sunday after the body of a 34-year-old woman, identified as Miss Charity Ohaka, was recovered from a well in the community. The deceased was said to have been tied by her assailants and thrown into the well after she was murdered. Charity, according to sources, was a native of the Emohua Local Government Area of the state, but lived in the Rumuosi community before her gruesome murder. It was gathered that the young woman, who was a thrift contribution collector, went missing on Thursday, a development that forced the youth to launch a search party  for her and combed the bushes in the area to no avail. But her corpse was found inside the well after a resident of the community, who went to fetch water from the well, perceived a stench from it and raised the alarm. Sources stated that a diver was hired to go into the well to find out what was inside it. Charity’s body was recovered on Sunday and it was observed that it was tied to a big block before it was thrown into the well. An eyewitness, who spoke with PUNCH Metro on condition of anonymity, said Charity’s corpse was found at the bottom of the well. The eyewitness stated, “Charity, who used to collect daily thrift contributions from traders, had been missing since last week Thursday. We heard earlier that she was kidnapped. “She was an indigene of Ogbakiri in Ikwerre; we heard that her apartment was broken into by her abductors. “After people started complaining about the stench from the well, we informed the local vigilante group and invited a diver, who dived into the well to investigate; lo and behold, the body of the missing lady was found at the bottom tied to a heavy block.” Another eyewitness, who only identified himself as Prince, said some angry youths immediately went on the rampage, looting shops, damaging vehicles, attacking and robbing residents and passers-by of their valuables when they heard about the incident. “Some angry youths, believed to be from Ogbakiri, started destroying people’s properties at the Rumuosi junction, damaging cars, looting shops and supermarkets. People were running helter-skelter on Sunday evening as they were scared of being robbed or being injured by the youth,” Prince stated. The mother of the deceased, Mrs Evelyn Ohaka, called on the government to give her justice, adding that her first daughter must not die in vain. “I want the government to find my daughter’s killers. She was my first daughter. She was born on November 5, 1985. I am not happy. The government should go to the house where my daughter was living and arrest everybody there. They must find my daughter’s killers,” she lamented. Our correspondents gathered that Charity’s neighbours had fled their home to avoid being arrested by the police. When contacted, the Rivers State police spokesman, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the incident, adding that two persons had been arrested in connection with Charity’s gruesome murder. Omoni stated that the police had intervened in the matter and restored peace in the area. He added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Mustapha Dandaura, had ordered an investigation into the matter. “The police have taken over the matter and peace has been restored in the area. The commissioner of police in the state has ordered an investigation into the matter with a view to apprehending the culprits and bringing them to book,” Omoni said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 