Friday Olokor The Catholic Pontiff, Pope Francis, has accepted the retirement of John Cardinal Onaiyekan as Archbishop of the Catholic Diocese of Abuja. He has therefore appointed immediate-past President of Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria and former Archbishop of Jos, Ignatius Kaigama, as Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja with immediate effect. The message was contained in a circular by the Chancellor of Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, Rev. Fr. Sebastian Musa on Saturday. The memo addressed to the clergy, religious and lay faithful was entitled, “Retirement and appointment.” The statement read, “Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, peace of the Lord be with you. The Holy Father, Pope Francis has accepted the retirement of His Eminence, John Cardinal Olorunfemi Onaiyekan as Archbishop of the Catholic Diocese of Abuja and has appointed Archbishop Ignatius Ayau Kaigama as Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja with effect from this announcement. “May I humbly request that you kindly remember in your prayers our Archbishop Emeritus, John Cardinal Onaiyekan and Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama. Through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of the Apostles, May God in His Love, mercy continue to guide and bless our archbishops and the diocese.” According to Wikipedia, Onaiyekan was born in the town of Kabba, in what is now Kogi State, to Bartholomew and Joann Onaiyekan. He attended St. Mary’s Catholic School in Kabba from 1949 till 1956, Mount St. Michael’s Secondary School in Aliade, Benue State, from 1957 until 1962, and SS. Peter & Paul Major Seminary in Bodija, Ibadan, from 1963 until 1965. The cleric completed his religious studies in Rome in 1969 and was ordained as a priest on August 3 of that year by Bishop Auguste Delisle of Ilorin. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   