Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Federal Government has arraigned a former speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Friday Komboyein, and four others before the Code of Conduct Tribunal in Abuja. A statement by the Head, Press and Public Relations, CCT, Ibraheem Al-Hassan, said on Thursday, that the defendants were arraigned on Wednesday for  charges of abuse of office. Al-Hassan said the ex-Bayelsa State speaker and his co-defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them. The ex-speaker’s co-defendants are Mr Aaron Timiye (former Clerk of the House), Mr Thomas Tamaraodubo (former accountant), Owudogu Edward (the incumbent Clerk) and Mr Koroye Stephen (the incumbent accountant). The CCT’s statement explained that the defence counsel, Mr Diriyai Dambo (SAN), had earlier requested that the matter be struck out on the grounds that the dispute leading to the institution of the case had been amicably resolved. The Federal Government, through the Code of Conduct Bureau had earlier in May this year, charged  Benson and his co-defendants with abuse of office following a petition by a member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Israel  Goli. Goli had alleged in his petition that the defendants had unjustifiably refused to pay him some allowances which were paid to other members of the House since May 2015. In urging the tribunal to strike out the case, the defence lawyer told the court that the necessary payments had been made to the petitioner, and that the petitioner had since withdrawn his petition sent to the CCB. Responding, the prosecuting counsel, Peter Danladi, told the court that the letter written by the petitioner that the petition should be withdrawn had no effect to the trial and as such the matter would continue. The chairman of the three-man panel of the CCT, Danladi Umar, rejected the application to have the charges struck out. He said the matter being criminal in nature; it was the Attorney-General of the Federation through the prosecution team, who had the power to withdraw it, and not the petitioner. Another member of the panel, Julie Anabor, also clarified that the charges were filed as a result of the strength of the investigation carried out by the CCB. The tribunal fixed December 17, 2019 for the commencement of trial. Thursday’s statement of the CCT added that a case against a former Senator representing Ebonyi Central, Emmanuel Onwe, also came up before the tribunal on Wednesday. The former senator was charged with one count of failure to return his completed assets declaration form within the timeframe allowed by the law. But his lawyer was said to have informed the tribunal that he had filed a notice of preliminary objection to the charge, insisting that his client declared his assets and submitted his form within the time stipulated by law. The tribunal fixed December 18 for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 