Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The National Youth Service Corps, Ebonyi State, on Monday, said the two corps members that were sacked from the orientation camp in the state, were not sent out due to hate for their faith or for them. The Ebonyi State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs Ann Ibe, while speaking with newsmen on Monday, in Abakaliki, pointed out that the scheme relied on various sections of its bye-laws to carry out its decision, saying that its action to de-kit the two corps members was based on due process. Recall that two corps members were sacked by the NYSC for allegedly refusing to wear its trousers and shorts, during the three-week orientation course, which is currently ongoing across the nation. They were said to have violated the dress code of the corps by wearing a skirt instead of the trousers stipulated and issued by the NYSC. It was said that efforts to make them change their minds and wear the approved kits proved abortive, a development that forced the NYSC to de-kit and decamp them. READ ALSO: 6 things you should know about Tam David-West According to the NYSC boss in the state, the corps members were queried for flouting Schedule 1 Article 3 (b) (ix) of the NYSC Bye-Laws 1993. The article, she added, dealt with code of conduct of corps members especially as it relates to the mode of dressing. Schedule 1, Article 3 of the bye-laws states, “Every member shall observe the following code of conduct during the period for which the code relates.” It further states in (b) (ix), “That during the orientation course, every member shall wear the various uniforms provided for activities.” Mrs Ibe further stressed that the bye-laws also stipulated punishment for offenders in Schedule 2, Article 1(I) (a). The said Schedule 2, Article (I) (a) states that “Failure to wear the uniform provided for any particular activity, the corps member should be informed to go and wear the uniform, failing which he or she will be decamped.” She further added that the two corps members were decamped in line with the recommendations of the NYSC Camp Court, saying that the court was the Corps Disciplinary Committee which handled cases that arose in the camp. “The Court considered their cases and gave them the opportunity to defend themselves for not being properly kitted in line with service regulations which includes undertaking to keep to the rules and regulations of the scheme “They were properly defended by a corp lawyer and at the end, the court found them guilty and recommended they be decamped and de-kitted. “Though they were de-kitted and decamped in line with the bye-laws of the NYSC, the matter has been forwarded to the headquarters of the scheme for final determination and necessary action.”