Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Former Commissioner of Police in Akwa Ibom State, Kenneth Ebrimson on Monday, assumed office as the new commissioner of police in Ogun State. Ebrimson took over the baton of leadership from immediate-past Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama who was redeployed on the directives of the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu. Ebrimson, who arrived at the officers’ mess in Abeokuta at exactly 2:28 p.m. was received by officers of the command led by Makama. It would be recalled that former Commissioner of Police in Lagos, Imohimi Edgal had taken over the command but, was later swapped with Ebrimson from Akwa Ibom State. READ ALSO: FG admits border closure cause of rising inflation Addressing newsmen shortly after the handing over ceremony, Embrison announced the reversal of Edgal’s policy. He said he would not continue with the recent policy announced by Edgal to fight corruption, but set up his own policies. He said his strategy of policing would be centred on physical policing, intelligence and respect for human rights. He noted that the state would experience robust policing and high visibility, adding that it would curb criminal activities in the state. Embrison said “I will come up with mine, I have a hotter one because I have seen it. I have been in theatres of wars, where there are criminalities. I have been in a theatre where there is banditry, I have been in a theatre where there is cattle rustling, I have been in a theatre where there is kidnapping. “So, I have what it takes to cage some of these crimes and I will soon hit the ground. The tripod I will fall on is physical policing, intelligence-led policing and respect for human right and human dignity. That is the tripod on which I will stand to ensure that I give better service delivery to the people of Ogun State. “You have to expect robust policing, high visibility physical policing on the ground. This is a familiar terrain and the environment is very familiar to me and I have  served in different environments in parts of this state.” Embrison was admitted into the Nigeria Police force on February 1st 1966 as an Assistant Superintendent of Police and has served in different parts of the state.