Deji Lambo Some suspected robbers fleeing a robbery scene on Thursday shot dead a policeman in the Falomo area of Ikoyi, Lagos State. Another yet-to-be-identified policeman and a security guard were said to have sustained gunshot injuries as residents fled for safety. PUNCH Metro learnt that a man had withdrawn money from a bank in the area around 12pm when the robbers, who had been monitoring his movement, accosted him on the Falomo Bridge. They were said to have dispossessed the victim of his valuables. In a bid to escape, the robbers, who were on a motorcycle, reportedly got down from the bridge as a police team from the Onikan division waylaid them. The robbers and the policemen were said to have exchanged gunfire, during which the cop was killed. Footage of the aftermath of the clash, which was captured by a resident, showed some policemen carrying the slain cop into a patrol vehicle. The footage, which was shared on Instagram by Instablog9ja, also showed residents lamenting the killing. “A policeman and a bike man were today (Thursday) killed during a robbery operation at a bank around Falomo Roundabout, Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, Lagos State. It was gathered that the robbers came and escaped on a bike. The policeman was shot dead while trying to retrieve his rifle and gave the thieves a fight, while a bike man was hit by a stray bullet from the robbers,” the blog stated. On Twitter, one Dr Carter, @Larry_SFN, claimed he witnessed the robbery. “I just witnessed a live robbery on Ikoyi, Falomo Bridge. He (robber) was on a bike with a pistol! I should have pushed him with the car, but I got confused. What if he didn’t die or fall?” he wrote. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, said a policeman was killed and another cop sustained gunshot injuries. The spokesman stated that men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the command had been deployed to arrest the fleeing suspects. He said, “A man went to withdraw money from a bank on Awolowo Road. The armed robbers watched from a distance as he came out of the bank and entered his car. “They trailed him up to Falomo Bridge and blocked him. During the attack, the man was smart enough to hide the cash somewhere and left only his phone and laptop in the bag he carried. So, when they came and demanded the bag, he gave it to them and they turned back; they followed one-way direction. “But when they got under the bridge, a police team from the Onikan division engaged them in a gun battle and a policeman was killed in the process. Another policeman was injured, including a security guard who was also coming out of a bank in the area. The robbers did not even shoot the man they robbed. “We have a police pin-down point in that area and there was an alarm raised from on top of the bridge which made the officers position themselves to counter the robbers. Unfortunately, they escaped on their motorcycle.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   