Chatbots are computer programs that simulate conversations with human beings, most especially over the internet. It is an emerging field of technology that draws heavily from the work done in artificial intelligence. Basically, a chatbot is an artificial intelligence enhanced virtual robot that chats. As 2020 approaches, the burgeoning chatbot industry will find a ready market in Nigeria with firms that offer extensive customer support eagerly snapping the technology up. Already, a few big businesses in Nigeria are using chatbots to improve customer experience on their platform. The year 2020 is thus a year in which the technology would become a top trending digital product in Nigeria. Tech-savvy Nigerians already boast of some sort of experience and interaction with chatbots. Most of that encounter takes place on smart devices such as phones, pads, and laptops with an internet connection. Android’s Google Assistant, Window’s Cortana, and Apple’s Siri are artificial intelligence-powered chatbots already operating on smart devices which a sizable percentage of the population use. Nigeria’s financial institutions are also hopping on the chatbot train with two banks deploying social media chatbots. United Bank Africa(UBA) uses a chatbot that goes by the name “LEO” and Diamond Bank (now merged with Access Bank) uses one that goes by the name “ADA”. The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) also uses a chatbot named X-Bot to facilitate interactions on the bourse. Chatbots as a business tool Businesses have an increasing need to keep up communication with their legion of customers. There are usually customers’ complaints to resolve, and the need to provide information to customers. Large and capital-gulping customer care units deal with this arm of a business. However, with the advent of interactive chatbots, firms can start subletting such functions to bots. This not only helps in saving costs, but it also helps in enriching the customer support experience on the platform. Chatbots can provide professional and incisive services that dissolve the difficulties a customer encounters using a firm’s product. The capabilities that chatbots bring to business operations go beyond just engaging in conversations. They gather tons of information from their interaction with clients, helping firms understand the preferences and needs of their market. Businesses can thus develop bespoke products and services for their clients using the data gleaned by the bots. This also helps with targeted marketing and advertising as firms can now target a group of clients with products that meet their tastes. Clients also experience better customer care experience with the use of bots as they get real-time responses on their queries. The frustrating and annoying wait customers experience when using customer care agents can also be cut out with chatbot’s real-time responses to inquiries. Industries that can leverage chatbots to improve business As earlier stated, some financial institutions are already on the chatbot-user list. However, 2020 should mark the year in which an explosion would occur in the use of this particular revolutionary digital product in Nigeria’s financial services sector. More banks, insurance companies, pension fund administrators, and other financial services providers should key in. E-commerce giant, Jumia already has a chatbot that came into operation in 2017, 2020 should see an improvement in its services. Other E-commerce groups should be latching on to this digital revolution to improve their services in 2020. In 2020, online betting sites and casinos should get in on the act too If there is a service provider whose business revolves around customer satisfaction, then it is online betting sites in Nigeria. The best betting sites in Nigeria 2020 need to offer a great customer support experience to get their customers loyal. Online casinos and betting sites use a multi-channel approach to reach across to their customers. Such channels include live chats, telephone calls, e-mails, and even social media platforms. Chatbots are just about right to use in rendering seamless and near-perfect services on those platforms. 2020 is just that year when Nigeria’s leading online betting companies and casinos should be revolutionizing their customer care experience with cutting edge technology, and what better way to kick off than with artificial intelligence-powered chatbots.