Rasheed Bisiriyu Fresh facts have emerged why Toyota Nigeria Limited recently parted company with one of its subsidiaries, Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited, and announced that the latter had ceased to be an accredited dealer of Toyota under the TNL arrangement. It was learnt on Wednesday that Toyota Nigeria decided to revoke the dealership relationship it had with Globe Motors after it reportedly found that the dealer was unilaterally importing Toyota products not approved for the Nigerian market. This came as Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan has reportedly approved the TNL’s decision to withdraw the Toyota dealership authority granted Globe Motors. Globe Motors’ ‘solo’ operation was said to have resulted in a number of clashes between the dealer and some Toyota customers, which also involved the TNL as the recognised sole distributor of Toyota vehicles in Nigeria. Toyota Nigeria had last week in a public notice published in some national newspapers said Globe Motors was no longer authorised to transact any business on behalf of the TNL, and would therefore not be liable for any business transaction carried out by any Toyota customer with the dealer. The notice read, “Toyota (Nigeria) Limited wishes to inform the general public and all our dear customers that Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited is no longer a Toyota accredited dealer, hence is no longer authorised to transact any business on behalf of the TNL. “As such, Toyota will not be liable for any business transaction with Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited.” The TNL accused Globe Motors of infringing on its dealership agreement with the TNL, and by extension the business operational guidelines of the TMC for the Nigerian market. It was learnt that several attempts made to resolve the crisis between the two parties, which had lingered since 2017, failed. It was, however, not clear if the TMC of Japan intervened by inviting the TNL and the dealer. But representatives of the automaker have continued to visit Nigeria to attend the TNL programmes. They were at the recent Abuja motor show and visited the Toyota stand to see the performance of the firm and its accredited dealers. With the approval of the TNL action, Globe Motors would no longer act on behalf of Toyota in transactions, which attract TMC-backed warranty. The transactions include vehicle sales, service, and part replacement. This development leaves Toyota with seven accredited dealers which are Elizade Nigeria Limited, RT Briscoe Plc, Omoregie Motors Limited, Germaine Auto Centre Limited, Mandilas Enterprises Limited, Metropolitan Motors Limited and Kojo Motors Limited. But reacting to the issue, the Managing Director, Globe Motors, Victor Oguamalam, said the firm had nothing to lose, adding, “Our warranty is more valid than that of any subset in the country.” He added that Globe Motors imported “tropicalised vehicles built for Nigerian roads and climate.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 