Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Two Kaduna lecturers abducted six days ago by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers, have reportedly escaped from their captors. They were abducted at  Mahuta in Igabi Local Government Area of the state six days ago. The two kidnapped lecturers, Adamu Chonoko from the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and Umar Chonoko, from Kaduna Polytechnic, escaped on Sunday. The two lecturers who are siblings hail from Kebbi State. READ ALSO: Live updates: Collation of Bayelsa, Kogi Governorship results Recall that Dr. Adamu Chonoko was the first to be kidnapped by the gunmen while Umar, who went to deliver the N2 million and a new motorbike demanded by the abductors, was also held by the gunmen. The abductors went on to demand an additional N5 million before the duo could be set free. However, on Sunday, the spokesman for the Kebbi Indigenes Association in Kaduna State, Garba Muhammad, broke the news of the escape of the kidnapped siblings Garba, who is also the Garkuwan Wakikilin Sarkin Zurun Kaduna, disclosed that after paying additional N3 million as ransom, the kidnappers made a fresh demand of N10 million before they would release the lecturers. According to him, the fresh N10 million demand could not be met. He added that it was with the assistance of security agents that the two lecturers escaped. Garba said, “Yes, the two siblings and indigenes of Kebbi State, have escaped from their kidnappers and arrived the palace of Wakilin Sarkin Zurun Kaduna and were received by the Wakili around 11:51 a.m. today (Sunday). We thank Allah for their escape. “Umar Chonoko went to deliver the N2 million and a motorcycle ransom to secure his brother Adamu’s freedom, only for the abductors to hold him back and demand another N5 million ransom. “N3 million was delivered, making a total of N5 million, but the abductors made another demand for N10 million. “Their demand could not be met. Just this morning, with the assistance of security agents, both of them escaped. “We thank the media, security agencies and all those who helped us in praying for their freedom.” As of the time of filing this report, the Police Public Relations Officer of the Kaduna State Police Command, DSP Yakubu Sabo could not be reached for comment on the incident.