Samuel Awoyinfa Stakeholders in the book publishing and printing sector have decried what they term the government’s neglect of the sector. They said this during the annual general meeting of the Nigerian Publishers Association held in Lagos. They said there had not been a deliberate policy by the government for the publishing and printing industry and noted that almost all materials used in industry were imported. In his address, the President of the NPA, Mr Gbadega Adedapo, further stated that in as much as the book publishers strived to meet the educational requirements of the nation, book pirates had also been undermining their efforts. He said, “We want the government to assist book publishers in this area by strengthening the Nigerian Copyright Commission. “In addition to the non-recognition of the book sector as a major stakeholder in the knowledge and creative industry, government seems to have sidelined book industry stakeholders in its laudable programmes for the creative industry.” Adedayo, however, said the sector had made tremendous contributions to the nation’s economy, and therefore called for a change of attitude by the government towards the players. “Publishers should be accorded due recognition as major stakeholders in the knowledge and creative sector of the economy,” he added. The keynote speaker at the event, Mr Segun Ajai-Kadir, who’s also the Director-General, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, said the pulp and paper-related imports cost N50bn annually, as about 90 of materials used in printing were imported. Ajai-Kadir, who was represented by MAN’s Director of Economics and Statistics, Dr Oluwasegun Oshidipe, spoke on the theme, ‘Publishing in an import-dependent economy -The way forward.’ He added that those in the publishing sector must be innovative and embrace backward integration in sourcing some of the materials used in printing locally, so that they could compete with their peers from other climes. The MAN DG, who said the African Continental Free Trade Agreement offered the largest market in the sub-Saharan Africa, stated that only those who were prepared would seize opportunities therein. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 