Peter Dada, Akure The Federal University of Technology Akure has placed an indefinite suspension on six students of the institution who were allegedly involved in the beating of a female colleague to a coma. The sanctioned students included Popoola Olaniyi, Oluwadare Faith, Nandi Jessica, Ajuwon Emmanuella, Emmanuel Taiwo and Alao Cecilia. The incident reportedly occurred at one of the students’ hostels outside the campus of the institution. It was gathered that the students on Saturday pounced on the victim for alleged gossip about one of them while the other five decided to avenge by beating her ruthlessly. During the beating, one of them recorded the act and posted it on social media. In the video that went viral, two of the students were slapping and whipping the victim ruthlessly while she (victim) begged them to leave her alone. A source said the brutal assault landed the victim at the hospital as she was said to have gone into a coma after the beating. The source said, “The lady (victim) was accused of gossiping about one of the female students in the hostel. So she (accuser) then invited her other friends, one male, and four female, to ‘deal’ with her. That was how they started beating her.” The source added that the victim was currently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Akure, the Ondo State capital, where she was being admitted. The institution in a statement issued on Sunday by its Deputy Director of Corporate Communications, Mr Adegbenro Adebanjo, said the six students had been suspended indefinitely while the institution had begun an investigation into the matter. According to the statement, the university declared that it would not tolerate indiscipline or any act that contravened its rules and regulations. The statement read in part, “Following the ugly incidence of bullying of a female student by some students and as a result of a preliminary investigation, the students have been placed on indefinite suspension with effect from Monday, November 17, 2019. “As a consequence of their suspension, they are precluded from all academic-related activities indefinitely and barred from the university and its precincts forthwith. “At the conclusion of the ongoing investigations the full weight of the law of the university, as contained in the handbooks and oath of matriculation which all students are made to sign and subscribe to, will be visited on those found culpable.”