Afeez Hanafi The police have trailed a truck driver, Iliyasu Wasiu, to his hometown in Igboho, Oyo State, where he fled to after killing a motorist, Tochukwu Nnochirionye. Wasiu, the driver of a Daf truck with the number plate, LSD 742 XK, reportedly caused a multiple accident on Otedola Bridge, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway which resulted in Nnochirionye’s death. Officials blamed the fatal crash on the brake failure of the truck leading to the collision that involved a Toyota Hilux with the number plate, KRD 797 XN driven by the deceased and a BRT bus marked EPE 679 XT. According to the police, the Toyota Hilux belongs to a company in the Ilupeju area of the state. Wasiu was said to have abandoned the vehicle at the scene and fled. City Round learnt that detectives tracked down the 37-year-old suspect at his town on November 1. He told the police that he ran away having noticed that Nnochirionye was dead, adding that he did not inform the truck owner of the accident. He said, “I am the driver of the truck involved in the fatal accident on Otedola Bridge on October 23, 2019 around 9am. That day, I was coming from Tin Can (Apapa) going to Asaba, Delta State. On getting to the bridge, the Toyota Hilux driver applied the brakes in front of my truck and I applied brakes too. “I hit the Toyota Hilux and caused it to hit a BRT bus. I heard people say that someone has died and I ran away. I went to Igboho (Oyo State). I don’t know that failure to report the accident to the police is an offence. I was also afraid to report it to the owner of the truck.” The driver was consequently brought before an Ogba magistrates’ court by a police prosecutor, Mr Benson Emuerhi, on nine counts bordering on reckless driving. Emuerhi, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, told the court that the offence contravened sections 7, 19, 20, 23, 25, 26 29 and 35, Cap 172, Vol. 7 of the Traffic Law of Lagos State, 2012. The charges read in part, “That you, Iliyasu Wasiu, on October 23, 2019, at 8.40am, on Otedola Bridge, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, being the driver in charge of a Daf truck with the registration number, LSD 743 XK, drove the same in a reckless manner to cause injuries to one Toyin Durojaiye. “That you, Iliyasu Wasiu, on the same date, time and place, being the driver in charge of a Daf truck with the registration number,  LSD 743 XK,  drove the same in a reckless manner to cause the death of one Tochuchwu Nnochirionye, 39.” The defendant however pleaded not guilty before the presiding Magistrate, Mrs. O. Sule-Amzat, and elected summary trial. The magistrate granted him bail in the sum of N500,000 with two sureties in the like sum and adjourned the case till February 23, 2020. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  