…Ask agencies to intervene in oil spill crisis in Delta community Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has begun investigation of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency over the disparity in the prices of Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) being sold to marketers. At the plenary on Wednesday, two members, Olusegun Odebunmi and Abubakar Fulata, moved a motion alleging that PPMC was selling to the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria at N125.65k per litre while selling to the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria at N133.28 per litre. The lawmakers unanimously adopted the motion, entitled, ‘Need to Check the Discriminatory Practices of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency against the Independent Petroleum Marketers on the Sale of Premium Motor Spirit.’ They mandated the House Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream) to investigate the matter “with a view to ensuring a uniform pricing regime for all concerned marketers and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.” READ ALSO: PHOTOS: Osinbajo presides over FEC meeting for three consecutive weeks Odebunmi said, “There are two blocs of marketers in the downstream sector of the nation’s petroleum industry, namely the major marketers and independent marketers. “The House is disturbed that the PPMC, being the coordinator of petroleum products distribution in the downstream sector, is selling PMS to the two blocks at different prices; major marketers at N125.65k per litre and selling to the independent marketers at N133.28 per litre. “The House is concerned that since members of the two blocs are selling the products to retailers in the same market, the discriminatory prices have been affecting the participatory capacity of the independent marketers in the market as well as impoverishing them against their counterparts in the sector. The House is desirous of the need to check the discriminatory practices of the PPMC in order to give all concerned marketers a sense of belonging.” Meanwhile, the House, while adopting another motion, resolved to call on the Nigeria Energy Security Command and the National Oil spill Detection and Response Agency to “identify the spillage sources, respond quickly to contain the spillage and clean up the affected quarters in Ovade-Oghara Community in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State.” The House also called on the National Emergency Management Agency to” as a matter of urgency, ensure the free treatment of respiratory and other related ailments associated with the oil spillage, and provide relief materials to the victims of the oil spillage who have lost their farmlands and sources of livelihood.” Also, the House mandated the Committee on Petroleum (Upstream) to interface with the community leaders as well as the oil companies operating in Ovade-Oghara community with a view to addressing the effects of their operations in the area. The resolutions were passed following the adoption of a motion moved by Ben Igbakpa, entitled, ‘An Urgent Need to Contain and Clean Up the Oil Spillage at Ovade-Oghara in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State.’ Moving the motion, Igbakpa said, “On the 1st day of October, 2019, the people of Ovade-Oghara in Ethiope West LGA woke up to see an oil spillage that ravaged a substantial part of the community. A close inspection of the oil spillage reveals that it was a result of a ruptured pipeline because there was no sign of digging yet the spillage is coming from the ground which suggests an old pipe. “ Ovade -Oghara Community is the host community to Pan Ocean Flow Station with over 50 operational wells spanning over 47 years. The said oil spill has affected a total of three quarters in Ovade Community, destroying farmlands, crops and aquatic lives. The said oil spill which resulted from a ruptured oil facility has continued till this moment unabated.”