A drunken Fulani herdsman has said that he mistook a fellow herder he killed for someone who had stabbed him with a broken bottle. The accused herdsman, Ibrahim Graba, is of the Bani Fulani camp, in Kaiama Local Government Area of Kwara State During Garba’s arraignment at an Ilorin Magistrates’ Court on Thursday, the prosecutor, Insp. Al-Hassan Jibrin, told the Magistrate, Mrs. Zainab Usman, that on September 16, Garba’s case was transferred from Divisional Police Headquarters, Bani, Kwara, to the Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Ilorin, for discreet investigation. Jibrin said that on October 29, Abubakar Mohammed of Bani, Fulani camp, Kwara, reported that on the same date, some Fulani boys fought each other at a beer parlour situated at Bani, Kara market. He said that during the fight, the accused person used a machete and attacked Shehu Mohammed on his neck, which eventually resulted in his death. The prosecutor said the accused person also attacked Abubakar Ahmed with a machete, while Ahmed, in turn, defended himself with a bottle before escaping from being killed by the accused. Jibrin said that discrete investigation conducted led to the arrest of the accused person, who was identified by Ahmed to be the one who attacked him at the beer parlour. He said that during investigation, the accused person admitted to having taken alcoholic drink before going to the beer parlour, and that a fight had ensued between him and Abu, now at large. The prosecutor said that during the fight, Abu attacked the accused person with bottle, which knocked out some of his teeth. Jibrin said the accused person admitted to attacking the deceased, Shehu Mohammed, with machete on his neck, having mistaken him for Abu. The attack led to Shehu’s death. He said the offence was contrary to Section 221 of the Penal Code. The accused person pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Magistrate, Mrs. Zainab Usman, ordered Garba’s remand in Federal Correctional Service, and adjourned the case until December 24 for further mention. (NAN)