Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives on Thursday ordered the University of Maiduguri to suspend the plan to raise the fees imposed on students from 40 per cent to 400 per cent. The order was issued following the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by the Chief Whip, Mohammed Monguno, titled ‘Call to Put on Hold the Increase in Fees of University of Maiduguri.’ Adopting the motion, the lawmakers mandated the Committee on Tertiary Education and Services to engage the management of the University of Maiduguri “to stay action on the increment and to carry out an investigation on the matter in a bid to providing a lasting solution, and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.” Moving the motion, Monguno said, “The House notes the recent decision by the management of University of Maiduguri to increase the registration and other fees chargeable on students of the school from 40 per cent to 400 per cent and, thus, regrettable in the face of the plight of the people of the North-East. “Irrespective of the justification that may have informed the decision, either to address operational and managerial realities of the school, such decision is ill-timed, given the desire by the Federal Government, the Borno State Government and well-meaning Nigerians to tackle the educational needs of Borno State and its environs.” READ ALSO: Gov election: Police to deploy 32,000 personnel to Bayelsa Monguno added, “The House is disturbed that the decision to increase the fees will subject the parents to unnecessary burden and denial of the people of Borno State access to education, more particularly university education. The House is desirous of all stakeholders to rise to the occasion to ensure that the increase is reversed due to the greater need to propagate the right value of tolerance, liberalism, multiculturalism, and self-empowerment through education at the highest levels. “The House is concerned that to allow this decision to stand would further push the entire people of Borno and the North-East into the state of utter despair, having been beaten away from their farms, their fishing activity, etc. The decision would negatively impact on the students especially those from Borno and the North-East states, as they will be forced to drop from the university, a situation that may become a social menace to the society.” According to the Borno lawmaker, education remains the most important tool in fighting the Boko Haram menace to a defeat and to revamp the North-East from the shackles of underdevelopment and poverty. The Chief Whip added, “The House acknowledges the prime place the University of Maiduguri holds in the North-East in particular, the northern Nigeria and Nigeria in general. The House appreciates the determination by the university’s management by being steadfast in the provision of excellent academic environment and without shutting the university in the face of severe threats during the heightened activity of the insurgency. “With the over 14 million Nigerian children of school age not in school, the North accounted for 62 per cent, hence the need to give priority to education with overwhelming national security importance.”