A fresh leadership crisis brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party may be partly linked to political permutations ahead of the 2023 general election, according to party stalwarts, MUDIAGA AFFE writes On Wednesday, November 13, 2019, a special election committee set up by the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party conducted an election to fill key executive positions in the Lagos State chapter of the party. This was despite an alleged subsisting court order stopping the NWC committee from going ahead with the election. However, the controversial election saw the emergence of Mr Deji Doherty as the new chairman of the party in the state. The vacant positions, as contained in a memo by the National Organising Secretary of the party, Col. Austin Akobundu (retd.) were that of the state chairman, state vice-chairman (central), state organising secretary, state legal adviser, assistant legal adviser, party local government areas chairmen in Apapa and Badagry LGAs. The memo dated November 5, 2019, and addressed to the National Vice-Chairman of the main opposition party in the South-West, Dr Eddy Olafeso, listed Senator Ben Obi as chairman of the special election committee, while Ahmed Mukthar was named as the secretary. Other members of the committee were Senator Biodun Olujimi; Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe and Danladi Tijo. A day before the election, the immediate past Chairman of the party in the state, Dr Dominic Adegbola, and other executive members of the party were said to have secured a restraining order from the Lagos State High Court against the conduct of the exercise. The claimants in the suit, No LD/3600GCM/19, were Dominic Adegbola, John Agbaje, Adeniyi Pokanu, Kehinde Oshinowo, Ademola Badejo, Fatai Ajisefinni, Bidemi Akojenu and Taiwo Kuye, while the defendants were the PDP, Senator Ben Obi, Senator Biodun Olujimi, Agom Jarigbe, Danladi Tijo, Ahmed Mukthar, and the Independent National Electoral Commission. Justice T.A.O Oyekan-Abdullai of the General/Civil Division of Court (3) in Lagos noted that the proposed election slated for November 13 had no input of the state executive nor was it in compliance with the party’s constitution. He said, “That this court shall halt in making any order other than the fact that the parties shall keep peace and maintain the status quo. The motion on notice dated November 8, 2019, is hereby adjourned for the argument to November 18, 2019, and the same shall be served on the respondents, Director of State Service and Nigeria Police.” The case has been adjourned till December 12, when it will determine the merit or otherwise of the injunction. Despite the said injunction, the NWC conducted the special congress which saw the emergence of Mr Deji Doherty as the new chairman of the party. But before the election, the erstwhile chairman at a press briefing in Lagos stated that there were grand plans to sideline the leader of the party in the state, Chief Olabode George, adding that such plan would not work. Other party stalwarts who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity claimed that the leadership crisis was also part of struggle by some governors and top party chieftains to control the South-West zone of the party ahead of the 2023 presidential election. According to them, this will make some governors and chieftains to have a major say in who becomes the presidential candidate of the party in 2023. However, this is not the first time the Lagos PDP of the party will be embroiled in a leadership tussle. Since 1999, there were insinuations that George has always been the issue in the state chapter of the party. Many claimed that he was always being programmed to be sidelined while others disagreed.  From the era of a former High Commissioner to Ghana, Ambassador Musliu Obanikoro, to that of the governorship candidate of the party in the 2015 and 2019 elections, Mr Jimi Agbaje, there had been fierce internal leadership crises that threatened to tear members of the party apart. Just before the party’s NWC decided to conduct a fresh election to fill the vacant executive positions, Adegbola and another chieftain of the party, Mr Segun Adewale, had laid claims to its chairmanship in Lagos State. The factional dispute was the outcome of the national chairmanship tussle between Ahmed Markafi and Ali Modu-Sherrif, which was eventually laid to rest in favour of Markafi by the Supreme Court in July 2017. The state party executive positions had always been shared along the line of consensus agreement especially between the George camp and in recent times, the Agbaje and Mrs Aduke Maina camp. It is not clear if that agreement had been jettisoned in the newly-constituted executive, but there are indications that the election was meant to prepare the way for a new breed of leaders that are expected to take over the affairs of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. A party source alleged that the NWC was doing the bidding of the National Chairman, Mr Uche Secondus, and the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. However, speaking on the eventual conduct of the exercise, Olafeso, said he was not aware of any court injunction against the special congress. Olafeso, who noted that the party in the state had been embroiled in internal squabbling over the years, said the erstwhile executive members could not claim ignorance of the special congress that was done on November 13. He also disclosed that the tenure of the former executive members expired since December 28, 2018, adding that the congress was delayed due to the 2019 general elections. Olafeso explained, “They cannot claim that they were not aware of the congress because it was in the national dailies, including the PUNCH newspaper. They have been playing games with this and enough is enough. “We did not know anything about injunction; they never served any of us. We held our mini congress without anybody being served and we cannot wait forever over what the party has decided on. Since December 28, 2018, when the tenure of the chairman, (Dominic Adegbola), who was acting, expired, I have been supervising the activities of the party in Lagos. “We allowed the elections to go on in Lagos and it is time to fill in those vacancies and the National Working Committee of the party decided to set up a five-man panel alongside the zonal office to conduct a free and fair mini-congress to fill in those vacant positions. In conducting the mini-congress, 48 people were accredited. “Two key persons, Mr Deji Doherty and Mrs Kudirat Omotanwa contested the position of the chairman of the party, and Doherty emerged in a free and fairly supervised election by the NWC of the party.” Olafeso, however, appealed to all aggrieved parties to come together to reposition the party for future elections in the state, adding that the party could not continue the same way if it was desirous of winning the hearts of the electorate in the state. He said, “It is the best our party could have here and we want to appeal to all the leadership of the party to please give us a chance to reorganise the party in Lagos so that we can deal with the challenges of the monolithic, unproductive and very backward All Progressives Congress-led government in the state. With the resources available to the government of the state, the mediocre achievement is nothing to be celebrated and, unfortunately, people are not looking deep into this situation. “We will try to reconcile people, it is important. Unity is critical in any government but the truth is that we are not going to wait for a pessimist that will continue to act the same way and expect different results for us to move ahead. Now we have a state chairman, we are gearing to go and we are going to plead with all our leaders to give us a chance to grow the party. Some of them should be blamed for the non-performance of the party for over these 20 years,” he stated. But Adegbola, the former chairman of the party, has a different opinion as he described the exercise as a contempt of court. He said, “That (election) is in contempt of court. The lawyers are not happy that the party went against the court order to conduct an election. We know the election cannot stand because it is a nullity. We need to be sure of those responsible for doing this. There may be some elements within the NWC who are bent on destroying the PDP in Lagos State but I would not want to blame all members of the NWC. “I think they are just using a few people in the NWC to perpetuate this. The people should decide who their leaders are and it is not Abuja (headquarters of the party) that should decide for us. They have had an election without guidelines for conducting the exercise, no published lists of delegates. The time and venue of the exercise were done in secrecy. As far as I am concerned, the exercise is null and void,” he stated. Adegbola’s position was also corroborated by a member of the PDP Board of Trustees, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, who said the crisis in the Lagos PDP might have deepened following the latest development. “If the committee set up by the NWC to conduct a special election in Lagos PDP went ahead, then they would have caused a major crisis for the party because there was a court injunction that restrained them from doing that. It will be very unfortunate. “If a court has given an order and they went ahead to disobey it then what is the basis of all our grievances against the APC-led federal government. Well, I pray for the party because this is where I belong. If they have conducted that election I can assure you that a major crisis has been opened,” Babatope said. The elder statesman also said that a similar crisis was brewing in the Osun State chapter of the party, adding that the NWC would need to tread cautiously to address the issues. “The same thing in Osun, some people wrote a petition against the state chairman of the party and the NWC decided to set up a committee to investigate the matter. As far as I am concerned, we of Osun State, we are doing everything within our power to ensure that we take our state back to the PDP, but we must know that the APC is not a pushover party. “I am one of the greatest critics of the APC because I do not believe in them but it is not a pushover party. The PDP NWC must be very careful not to throw the party into a major crisis. If they do so then they would have prepared the ground open for perpetual domination of the Nigerian polity by the APC,” he added. However, the newly-elected chairman of the party in the state, Doherty, said he believed that the problem in the party could be addressed, adding that he had already met with the George group to find a lasting solution to the lingering crisis. “I do not think we have so many problems at hand and that is why I have been elected. Those who went to court have explained to me why they went to the court and they promised to withdraw the case. Apart from that, I have spoken with all the factions and I believe we would work together. “For now, everybody is happy but for a political party as big as the PDP, there might be some people that will still not be happy. In Lagos PDP, we cannot rule out the fact that we have some moles that are implanted in the party and they will continue to look for problem and crisis even where there is none, “he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 