Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna President, Media Forum of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim Musa, claimed that one of their members was killed by the police in Zaria, Kaduna State. He said the IMN, also known as Shi’ites, were on a procession commemorating the birthday of Prophet Mohammed when police opened fire and killed their member. He gave the name of the member as Muhammad Salisu. The IMN spokesman said, “Reports reaching the Islamic Movement in Nigeria indicate that one of the four casualties recorded earlier when police opened fire on worshippers marking the Maulud in Zaria, Muhammad Salisu, has died. “He was killed by police bullet that pierced the centre of his heart when they indiscriminately shot into the crowd with an aim to kill.” But the police in Kaduna State said a combined operation with the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corpse, dispersed the outlawed group professionally without any casualty. The Police Public Relations Officer of the command, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said the force had no encounter with the IMN members and no casualty as well. The police chief said, “Yes, we received reports at about 1545hrs that some members of the outlawed Islamic Movement of Nigeria were sighted at the Central area of Kaduna metropolis and our operatives promptly responded. “However, on sighting security agents, the protesters melted into the mass population of men and women who were minding their legitimate businesses within the market area. There was no encounter whatsoever with the police and no casualty was recorded as well. “Furthermore, a similar violent procession was carried out in Zaria today by the banned IMN group and it took the gallant efforts of security agents comprising the Police, Army and the Civil Defence to disperse the protesters and ensure public order and safety. No casuality was recorded as well.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    