Peter Dada, Akure The Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, has expelled six students who brutalised a female student, Boluwatife Adekunle, outside the campus of the institution few weeks ago. The expelled students are Popoola Olaniyi, Oluwadare Tobiloba, Nandi Jessica, Ajuwon Emmanuella, Emmanuel Taiwo and Alao Cecilia. The six expelled students were reported to have beaten Boluwatife black and blue following an allegation that she gossiped about one of them at a hostel outside the campus of the university. Their expulsion was confirmed by the Deputy Director, Corporate Communications of FUTA, Mr Adegbenro Adebanjo, in a statement issued on Tuesday in Akure. The statement read, “The expulsion is sequel to the recommendation of an investigative panel which probed the incident that took place in an off-campus hostel on Saturday, November 16, 2019. “The expulsion is in line with the position of Page 48 of the 2019/2020 Students Handbook which prescribes expulsion from the university for students who engage in physical assault or battery on another student outside the university premises. READ ALSO: Zamfara Assembly cancels N10m monthly pay to Yari, others “As a consequence of their expulsion, their studentship of FUTA ceases forthwith with all its rights and privileges. “The punishment meted out to the affected students is not to pander to the justifiable public outcry that greeted their odious act but in tandem with the rules and regulations as contained in the students’ code of conduct as stipulated in the university handbook and the oath of matriculation which all students are made to sign and subscribe to. “ Adegbenro also reiterated that the university had zero tolerance for indiscipline. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 