Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 19-year-old boy, James Tiva, and three others have been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for being in possession of 42 bags of weed suspected to be Indian hemp. The teenager and Anayor Okechukwu, 25; John Chidi, 32; and Felix Tehemeh, 20, were also accused of planting cannabis on a large expanse of land in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, stated this in a statement on Sunday. He said the suspects were arrested on Saturday following a tip-off received by the Divisional Police Officer, Ijebu-Igbo Police Station. [READ ALSO] Sowore: FG only obeys foreign court orders, says Falana Oyeyemi stated that the policemen were hinted that some cannabis farmers, who had just harvested their illicit farm produce, were going to pass through the town with the hemp. The statement said, “Upon the information, the DPO, SP Kazeem Solotan, quickly mobilised his men and headed straight for the forest, where the suspects were said to be coming from. “The suspects were accosted on the road and four of them were apprehended with 42 bags containing weed suspected to be Indian hemp. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects have a large expanse of land inside the forest, where the cannabis was being planted on a yearly basis.” Oyeyemi said the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. The PPRO stated, “The CP also praised members of the public for their alertness and the provision of necessary information that led to the arrest of the suspects. “The CP directed that a comprehensive investigation that will lead security agencies to the farm, where the cannabis is being planted, be carried out without delay.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 