Daud Olatunji ,Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Sunday said if Jesus Christ were to be in Nigeria at this time, he would not keep quiet on the situation of the country. Obasanjo stated this in his goodwill message at the 64th annual national  convention of the Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria held at  the  church  campground on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ajebo, Ogun State. The convention also featured installation of the new General Overseer of the church, Rev. Samuel Aboyeji, who took over from the immediate-past General Overseer, Rev. Felix Meduoye. Obasanjo, who disclosed that he first attended the church’s convention  soon after he was released from prison, said the 64th  convention  was  his fourth time of attending the church annual programme. Apparently reacting to the state of the nation, the  former President gave an indication that the situation in the country required the need for clerics to speak  out. He urged  Christians to be like Christ and as well foster unity among themselves, saying that failure to do that might make them become preys to the enemies. He said “As Christians, we have to be like Christ as we are  transformed into the likeness of Christ or little like Christ. “So, in all positions, situations and events, we should be guided. “If Christ was in this position, in this situation or in this event, what would he have done? “We have a lot to do in the situation we found ourselves in this country today. And make no mistake about it, if we don’t get together and stay together, we would be devoured and that we should not take lightly. “For me, if Christ was in Nigeria today, he would not keep quiet. He would say it as it should be said. He would speak truth to power. He would have no fear and he would have no intimidation. “Children of God, you have a responsibility to do and say what Jesus Christ would have done and said if he was in Nigeria today.” Obasanjo, however, mocked the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration on its slogan, “next level.” Obasanjo threw banter when he urged the new General Overseer to take the church to a greater height and quickly said, “I do not say to the next level.” Buhari’s administration had made the slogan, “next level” as its  campaign mantra ahead of the 2019 presidential  election. Obasanjo, however, commended the church for a peaceful selection of the new leadership. He said, “Foursquare is one of the churches that select or elect their leaders with little or no rancour.” Obasanjo said Rev. Aboyeji had been prepared by God having spent 24 years in the corporate world and 31 years in the service of God. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 