Ted Odogwu, Kano The Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II, on Thursday called on Nigerians not to attach religious sentiment to any act of criminality, saying there were bad Muslims, as well a bad Christians all over the World. While receiving the National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Revd Olasupo Ayokunle,  at his palace on Thursday, Sanusi said the two dominant religions preach peace, and therefore whoever committed crime or do anything contrary to the law of the land, should be regarded as an offender. He noted that religious coloration should not be read to crime. “At the age of eight years, I was a pupil of a Catholic school and throughout that period, we were neither taught any act of vandalism or terrorism. Parents should allow their children to mix with other religious groups so that they can understand each other,” he added. The monarch called on the people against using the mistake of one ethnic or religious faith to generalise for others. He said people who commited any crime should face the wrath of the law, pointing out that the sentiment of religion or ethnicity should not be attached. Responding, the state Chairman of CAN, Revd Samuel Adeyemo, said the purpose of the visit of Ayokunle, who was also the President of the Nigeria Baptist Convention, was to check the welfare of members of the Baptist churches in the Kano metropolis. He said, ‘’We want to say, for the Baptist churches in Kano State, we should continue to work together as a one family, and to be prayerful for the state and the country so we can lead a life of diligence worthy of emulation. “Christians in the state should abstain themselves from any act of evil and criminality which can tarnish them, as well as disrepute the name of Christ they are serving. “They should also avoid any act of evil and shady dealings but continue to pray for the state and the nation.” He commended the state Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, for his continued effort to ensure that peace reigned in the state. Adeyemo said, “We give kudos to the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi 11, for taking every tribe and resident in the state as his subjects. The noble way of Emir Sanusi positively made all non-indigenes resident in the state believe that they have a father who believes in the collective interest of his subjects.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   