Tobi Aworinde, Abuja Business mogul, Femi Otedola, has donated N5bn to the Cuppy Foundation, a philanthropic project of his daughter, Florence Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy. Mr Otedola, who was represented by another of his daughters, Tolani, made the announcement during the ‘Gold Gala,’ an event by his daughter at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, on Sunday. Tolani said, “My father, Mr Femi Otedola, has been at the forefront of supporting worthy causes. It is in this spirit that he will be donating the sum of N5bn to the children of Borno, Adamawa and Katsina through Save the Children.” Among the guests were Vice-President Yemi Osinbjao; CEO, Save the Children, UK, Kevin Watkins; Mr Femi Otedola, entrepreneur, Hajia Bola Shagaya; Ambassador Babagana Kingibe; and Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo. [READ ALSO] #NotThatBad: ‘Highways of death’ Fashola needs to visit They also included Senator Gabriel Suswam, Minister of State for Transport, Gbemisola Saraki; the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole; Alhaji Aliko Dangote; and his daughter Hajia Halima Dangote. Others were the Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Paulen Tallen; former Governor of Borno State, Gen Buba Marwa; Group CEO, Oando Plc, Wale Tinubu; Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun; and Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum. Cuppy’s godfather, Dangote, who is the owner of the Dangote Group, also made a donation of N100m. Dangote said, “It gives me great pleasure to be here supporting my brother, Femi. I believe we need more Nigerians to have big hearts to give back to the needy.” “To Cuppy, I must congratulate you for having a big heart to visit those children in Borno. She spent about four days with them. In the light of this, I am making a donation of N100m.” The young philanthropist, who is also an ambassador of the Save the Children UK, a non-governmental organisation, said her foundation, which was launched in August 2018, was inspired by a trip to Maiduguri, Borno State. According to Miss Otedola, she started the foundation as a way of giving back to the less fortunate. Osinbajo told the guests that the event must refocus their minds on caring for the poor and malnourished especially in Nigeria. According to the Vice President, in 2015, Buhari proposed the “largest social investment programme in Africa” of about N500bn annually. He added, “Yet we are far from where we ought to be. It is obvious that government cannot do it alone. So, we don’t (all) need to be billionaires (to do our part). It is time for every one of us to decide to make a difference to ensure that the poor and vulnerable are given a decent life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 