John Ameh and Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government has given warning of possible flood in 302 locations in Nigeria, with plans to expand the coverage to other parts of the country. It gave the warning through the Federal Ministry of Environment via the FME’s web based Flood Early Warning Systems. Officials of the ministry told our correspondent on Sunday that to reduce the devastation by floods the Federal Government was installing community-based FEWS stations, particularly in riverine areas. It was learnt, for instance, that an automated FEWS station was installed at Alamutu on Oyan River in Ogun State to detect the release of water from the dam. In a communiqué of the just concluded 13th National Council on Environment that was chaired by the Minister of Environment, Mahmood Abubakar, and obtained on Sunday in Abuja, it was revealed that 302 locations in Nigeria were currently covered by FEWS. On resolutions reached at the NCE, the communiqué stated that the council “identified the need to escalate the web based Flood Early Warning Systems presently providing predictions in 302 locations in Nigeria to cover the whole country as a result of the recent nationwide flood disaster.” Federal and state government officials at the NCE resolved that there was the need for the Ecological Funds Office to support the Federal Ministry of Environment to fund some major ecological remediation projects in Nigeria. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari said on Sunday that emergency response to disasters remained one of Africa’s biggest challenges and setbacks to its development. The Nigerian President sent a message of solidarity to the governments of Kenya and DRC over the disasters in separate letters he wrote them, his media aide, Mr Garba Shehu, said on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 