…Pope Francis accepts retirement Friday Olokor, Abuja The Catholic Pontiff, Pope Francis has accepted the retirement of Cardinal John Onaiyekan as Archbishop of the Catholic Diocese of Abuja. He has therefore appointed immediate-past President of Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria and former Archbishop of Jos, Ignatius Kaigama as Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja with immediate effect. The message was contained in a terse circular issued by the Chancellor of Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, Rev. Fr. Sebastian Musa, dated November 9 2019 and sighted by our correspondent on Saturday. The memo addressed to the clergy, religious and lay faithful was entitled: “Retirement and appointment.” The message reads, “Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, peace of the Lord be with you. The Holy Father, Pope Francis has accepted the retirement of His Eminence, John Cardinal Olorunfemi Onaiyekan as Archbishop of the Catholic Diocese of Abuja and has appointed Archbishop Ignatius Ayau Kaigama as Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja with effect from this announcement. READ ALSO: Buhari not responsible for non-issuance of airport licence —Gov Dickson “May I humbly request that you kindly remember in your prayers our Archbishop Emeritus, John Cardinal Onaiyekan and Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama. Through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of the Apostles, May God in His Love mercy continue to guide and bless our Archbishops and the Diocese.” According to Wikipedia, Onaiyekan was born in the town of Kabba, in what is now Kogi State, to Bartholomew and Joann Onaiyekan. He attended St. Mary’s Catholic School in Kabba from 1949 until 1956, Mount St. Michael’s Secondary School in Aliade, Benue State, from 1957 until 1962, and SS. Peter & Paul Major Seminary in Bodija, Ibadan, from 1963 until 1965. The cleric completed his religious studies in Rome in 1969 and was ordained as a priest on 3 August of that year by Bishop Auguste Delisle of Ilorin. In his reaction, the Director of Communications in Makurdi Diocese, Rev. Fr. Moses Iorapuu commended Onaiyekan for his “untiring services to the Church and especially for his inspiring leadership in Abuja province.” He said, “The Cardinal performed one of his memorable functions in Makurdi on Friday November 8 2019. At the 25th priestly anniversary and 5th Episcopal anniversary of Bishop Wilfred Anagbe CMF of Makurdi Diocese, he announced the appointment of Monsignor Stephen Beba as a Papal Chaplain, the first indigenous priest to be appointed as a Monsignor. “And today (November 9 2019), the news of his retirement is received. This is symbolic. The Cardinal attended Mt St Michael’s Sec Sch Aliade Benue State Nigeria and records show that no student has yet surpassed John Onaiyekan’s best record. “Makurdi Diocese must, therefore, have some special influence in defining everything about Cardinal Onaiyekan from his beginning to the end.  What a blessed man this cardinal! Happy retirement!”