Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The  candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the March 9 Oyo State governorship poll, Bayo Adelabu,  says he has decided to approach the Supreme  Court in his bid  to reclaim his mandate. The  Court of  Appeal  ruled on Monday that the appeal  he filed against the  Election Petitions  Tribunal’s dismissal of his petition challenging the Independent National Electoral Commission’s declaration  of Governor Seyi Makinde  of the Peoples Democratic Party as the winner of the polls “subsists”. And  Adelabu on Wednesday said  in his first official reaction on his verified Facebook account the judgment had further rekindled “our hope in both the electoral and judicial processes in our march to keep a date with history”. He wrote,  “When our great party, the All Progressives  Congress presented me as her standard-bearer in the 2019 governorship  election in Oyo State, we never wavered in our conviction that the good people of the state knew that I was the  best candidate among the lots that came out to seek their mandate. “But we never took this for granted as we worked tirelessly round the clock to showcase our blueprint to turn the fortunes of our dear state around for the better. “It is on record that we ran the most organised and issue-driven campaign and our people, having been convinced of our ability to walk the talk freely gave me their mandate in the election. “However, the agents of darkness perfected the plan to steal this mandate, hence our recourse to the judiciary to proof their wrongdoing. “The lower tribunal, which concerned itself with technicalities rather with the substance of our argument ruled otherwise. “Now that the Appeal Court has set the tone of righting the wrong, I appeal to the good people of Oyo State to hold the peace and go about their lawful activities as we approach the Supreme Court to validate your victory.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 