Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja A bill seeking the establishment of the South-West Development Commission scaled first reading on the floor of the Senate on Thursday. The bill was sponsored by the senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District, Ibikunle  Amosun, in conjunction with all the 37 South-West senators in the red chamber. Amosun, who is the immediate past governor of Ogun State, told journalists that the proposed legislation was solely for the development of the South-West geopolitical zone. He argued that the South-West geopolitical zone was bringing a lot of revenue to the federation account and that it would only be proper for it to benefit in terms of development. He said, “Clearly, it (the bill) is for the development of our people and our area. If a part of a whole is not well, then the whole will not be well. Clearly, every part of Nigeria should feel concerned about the need to develop their place. “If all of us develop our place, of course we will have a beautiful country that everybody will be proud of. “So to that extent, this is not just my bill, it is being co-sponsored by all of us (Yoruba senators) from the South-West. “Look at just the contribution of Lagos State to Nigeria as a nation. So, I think there should be some kind of special status but not just for Lagos alone now. “Of course, we are saying whatever happens in Lagos happens in Ogun State. For me, Ogun State is the industrial hub of Nigeria based on the population that we have and what we are contributing to Nigeria. “We don’t want any place to be left behind. But in doing that, we should not be oblivious of the fact that we need to continue to develop too and that is why we are bringing this bill.” Amosun said the proposed bill was different from the one sponsored by Senator Gbenga Ashafa in the 8th Senate but promised to incorporate it in his own. Lawan swears in Olujimi Meanwhile, the President of the Senate,  Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday, administered the oath of office on Senator Biodun Olujimi as senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District. Olujimi replaced the former Senate spokesperson, Adedayo Adeyeye,  whose election was nullified by both the Ekiti State Election Petitions Tribunal and the Court of Appeal sitting in Kaduna recently. Lawan, after the lawmaker had been sworn in, called for unity among all members of the upper chamber. He added that Olujimi’s victory brought the number of female senators to eight in the upper chamber. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 