Is the honeymoon over between President Muhammadu Buhari and his second-in-command, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo? This question has been on the lips of many, following the unfolding events lately at the country’s seat of power, the Presidential Villa, Abuja, JOHN AMEH writes 2023 is still far away, but much also suggests there seems to be a link to who takes over the reins of power in that year. No, perhaps, it’s also nothing more than cutting waste and ensuring good governance of the country? Either way, developments today indicate these are no ordinary times for the Professor of Law and Senior Advocate of Nigeria. In their first tenure (May 29, 2015-May 29, 2019), Buhari and Osinbajo had on paper what appeared to be a rubicund relationship -on several occasions, the President himself described the VP publicly as a trusted ally. Such was the trust that for 104 days in 2017 when Buhari was out of the country on medical vacation, the VP took full charge as acting President, commendably holding the fort for his boss. Seizing the opportunity, the VP, according to observers, pushed governance at a faster pace, taking major decisions and actions, preparatory to earning for himself, the sobriquet, ‘Star Boy’ of the administration of the ruling All Progressives Congress (some would say a perceived ‘cabal’ with tentacles in and out of government latched on these same decisions to set him up for what is today considered as discomfort for the law teacher). The camaraderie between the two saw Buhari picking Osinbajo again as his running mate for the second tenure election of February 23, 2019. However, certain developments since the second term took effect suggest a cold war orchestrated by the ‘cabal’ is raging at the Villa, though there is no official seal to it. Public opinion says some presidential decisions and actions taken lately seem targeted at Osinbajo to either contain him or whittle down his influence ahead of 2023; an argument suggesting there may be more to the unfolding scenario than good governance. Some presidential decisions that hit Osinbajo below the belt (?) In September, a certain presidential directive reportedly required the VP to seek the approval of Buhari before taking any major decisions concerning all the agencies under his watch. He takes watch over the National Boundary Commission; the National Economic Council (by law); the National Emergency Management Agency; the Border Communities Development Agency; and the Niger Delta Power Holding Company. The memo said to contain the directive has yet to be made public, but allegation back in September indicated that an ‘abuse of due’ process in the management of some responsibilities during the first term, was a reason Buhari issued the directive. The VP’s office dismissed the claim of abuse of due process, saying that Osinbajo followed the law through in all his actions. It stated, “The agencies in question are established by law and the Vice-President has always insisted on due compliance with the enabling statutes and other established regulations. “Depending on the particular scope of activity in question, agencies may require management approval only, at the level of the Director-General or Chief Executive Officer. In this category falls the great majority of their day-to-day activities. “However, other activities, or procurements, with value exceeding a certain threshold, require board approval. These may get to the agency board chaired by the Vice-President. In a few cases where Presidential approval is required, the Director-General must seek such approval from the President, through the Vice-President. “These rules have always guided the activities of statutory agencies and the ones under the Vice President’s supervision have always been so guided.” Another major decision taken by Buhari was the sudden scrapping of the Economic Management Team hitherto chaired by Osinbajo on September 16. The President replaced it with a new body, the Economic Advisory Council. The EAC had Prof Doyin Salami as the chairman and would now report directly to Buhari. Other members were Dr Mohammed Sagagi (Vice-Chairman); Prof Ode Ojowu; Dr Shehu Yahaya; Dr Iyabo Masha; Prof Chukwuma Soludo; Mr Bismark Rewane; and  Dr Mohammed Adaya Salisu (Secretary). The announcement, which was contained in a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, gave details, “This advisory council will replace the current Economic Management Team and will be reporting directly to the President. “The Economic Advisory Council will advise the President on economic policy matters, including fiscal analysis, economic growth and a range of internal and global economic issues working with the relevant cabinet members and heads of monetary and fiscal agencies. “The EAC will have monthly technical sessions as well as scheduled quarterly meetings with the President.  The Chairman may, however, request for unscheduled meetings if the need arises.” With the recent creation of the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, the government’s Social Intervention Programme (with an annual budget of N500bn) and some agencies like NEMA were said to have been impliedly moved to the new ministry for proper coordination. Under the SIP are schemes such as Trader Moni and Conditional Cash Transfers, two outlets Osinbajo used effectively in campaigning ahead of the February polls. The most recent presidential decision that reportedly hit Osinbajo hard was the sacking of at least 35 of his aides by Buhari on the grounds of reducing cost of governance. Osinbajo’s alleged ‘sins’ While there is no known official documentation of the VP’s offences that supposedly strained relations between him and his boss, discussions at unofficial circles, finger the ‘cabal’ for Osinbajo’s travails. Some claim that the star boy’s “over performance” when he acted as President during Buhari’s 104-day absence unsettled powerful political forces, who felt his influence must be contained immediately, else he would overshadow the President. Others alleged that two key decisions Osinbajo took at the time -the confirmation of Justice Walter Onnoghen as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and the sacking of Lawal Daura as the Director-General of the Department of State Services- were not well-received by the cabal. The decisions also raised the fear in corridors of power in Abuja how lethal Osinbajo could become if he was not tamed. Presidency denies rift, explains sacking of VP’s aides The Presidency, in its position, denied that Buhari and Osinbajo had any issues, saying that the media hype was entirely unnecessary. But, it confirmed the sacking of Osinbajo’s aides to be part of the government’s resolve to cut cost for better governance. It noted that the overhauling was the reason some of Buhari’s aides too were not re-appointed after he won election for the second term that started on May 29. The Presidency gave its position through the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu,  “The Presidency wishes to confirm that there is, on-going, an unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government, arising from which a number of political appointments have either been revoked or not renewed in the second term. “The exercise, which has been ordered by the President, is to streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration. “It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce which acts as a drag on efficiency. “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the second term. “The office of the Vice President, His Excellency Yemi Osinbajo has, in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these exercises, the overriding objective is to save taxpayer money and deliver needed service to the public.” Denying that there existed a rift between the numbers one and two citizens, the Presidency insisted that their relationship remained solid. It blamed those it called “mischief makers” for spreading the rumour that there was a problem between Buhari and Osinbajo, adding that the aim was to get stories that would excite the public from the Presidency. The Presidency stated further, “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation. “There has been a streamlining of staff going on for a while. The President has always had fewer staff than the Vice-President, and there were always plans to reduce the number of staff at the Villa. “The streamlining was not personal or targeted to undermine the Vice-President’s office, as the so-called insider sources quoted by the media appear to make it seem.” Ironically, the VP’s spokesperson, Mr Laolu Akande, in his own official version, had denied the sacking of 35 of his boss’s aides, another indication of working at cross-purposes at the Villa. He had stated, “A list circulating in the media on the so-called sacked presidential aides is not genuine and ought to be ignored.” Some analysts give their views on the unfolding drama. For example, the Executive Director, Partners for Electoral Reforms, Ezenwa Nwagwu, said it would appear that there was more of media hysteria about the perceived bad blood between Buhari and Osinbajo either over 2023 or whatever issues than there really had been. He stated that the VP’s office/power became an issue since the days after former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, who commanded so much influence, giving the suspicion that subsequent occupants of the office must be tamed or they would usurp the powers of the President. Nwagwu said, “I  don’t make anything of all that is going on in the media; I do know that a bit of background is necessary in understanding the current situation,  Mr Atiku’ s ambition and his role in that office has made it difficult for subsequent holders of that position to show any spark without being suspected of wanting to undermine a principal. “Politicians are incredible weavers of conspiracy. I think Osinbajo has intellectual humility to stay the course and doesn’t come out to me as a man in the mould of the one who diminished that office, and I think his principal knows as much.” Specifically on the sacking of the VP’s aides, the director observed that all must know that all Villa aides were presidential appointees, whom the President could fire any time. “Every staff in the Presidency is an appointee of the President. Some are in the VP’s office; some in the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation”, he added. On his part, the President, Nigeria Voters’ Assembly, Moshood Erubami, said the explanation offered by the President that he was cutting cost by sacking Osinbajo’s aides sounded more convincing than the interpretations given the action by those outside the Villa. “Looking at the number of aides reduced, it will appear that the President was determined to reduce political staff in the Presidency and might be that the rationalisation is starting from the office of the Vice President which might be in the best interest of the country”, he said. Erubami also dismissed the thought that the fear of Osinbajo’s influence ahead of 2023 was an issue, arguing that the VP was eminently qualified to be President since Buhari would not vie for a third term. He explained further,  “The intention to contest election into the office of the President can only be in the mind of the VP unless externalised. Even where it is externalised, he would not have infracted any known law. In fact, he would not have undermined his boss in any way because President Buhari cannot run for a third term in office. Prof Osibajo has the constitutional rights to offer himself  to contest, come 2023. However, what is true  presently is that he has not told Nigerians of his interest, he is yet to demonstrate a willingness to contest and nobody can come out to say he has said so. Only  the Nigerian electorate can fervently ask him to contest if he is found suitable to continue in 2023 after the tenure of President Buhari. In this regard, nobody, no mafia can deny him that right.” Erubami further noted that the public show of closeness between Buhari and Osinbajo looked real, except the two were deceiving Nigerians. He said, “From the facts available to Nigerians which are yet to be contradicted by anybody, there is nothing pointing to impaired relationship. Unless the President and Osibajo are deceiving Nigerians with their usually demonstrated cordiality at public functions.” Commenting on the issue, an elder statesman, Junaid Mohammed, said whatever interpretation given to events at the Villa was irrelevant as the VP had limited control and influence under the 1999 Constitution (as amended). He argued that besides overseeing the National Boundary Commission and the National Economic Council, the VP had no other responsibilities under the constitution. Mohammed noted that all other duties performed by the VP were assigned to him by the President at his discretion. He recalled that Buhari allowed Osinbajo to perform many duties during his first tenure because the President realised that he was ill, adding that the drama playing out today was a case of Buhari assuming full control of government, following the improvement of his health. He said, “The VP is a professor of constitutional law and knows that he has only two functions in the constitution -Chairman of the NBC and to head NEC meetings. The functions of NEC are even advisory and not executive. All executive powers in the constitution belong to the President. In 2015 when Buhari came into office, he was clearly sick. So, he dissolved some of his responsibilities and delegated them to Osinbajo. “The VP performed fairly well in discharging those responsibilities except in the management of Trader Moni, N-Power and other aspects of the SIP.” Mohammed stated that such functions delegated to Osinbajo by Buhari made the VP appeared in the eye of the public that he had become a victim when the President decided to take them back to charge by himself. “There is a propaganda by certain groups and individuals; all that is happening is an attempt to either undermine Osinbajo or render him redundant, when in truth, the VP really has limited duties under the Presidential System. In Osinbajo’s case, he found himself busier than Buhari because the President was sick. So, the changes going on in government, the way I see them, is that the President is regaining his health and taking back his functions by creating new ministries and re-assigning the powers he hitherto gave to Osinbajo to those new areas.” However, Mohammed called on both Buhari and Osinbajo to meet and sort of their issues, adding that it’s not even in the interest of the VP to continue to listen to cheer leaders and thinking that he could fight the President over powers he (VP) never had constitutionally. “They should sort out the issues; there is little room for intervention by anybody. Not even the All Progressives Congress can help because the APC, like the Peoples Democratic Party, is a huge joke”, he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 