Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Knight Frank, the world’s largest independent residential and commercial property consultancy, is set to unveil its new Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Frank Okosun, for Knight Frank Nigeria. The consultancy firm said Okosun’s investiture would be held in Lagos on November 28, 2019 with corporate enterprise leaders, industry magnates, institutional stakeholders and other global real estate market personalities expected to be in attendance. According to Knight Frank in statement, Okosun replaces Chief Albert Orizu, who is retiring after 36 years of service. The firm described Okosun as purpose-driven, a pathfinder per excellence and an embodiment of the core values of the Knight Frank brand. It added that colleagues in the market place locally and internationally described him as innovative, inspirational, committed, enduring, respectful and collaborative. The firm said, “He takes over the leading estate firm at a significant epoch in the history of both the firm and the profession in Nigeria. He has served as a partner in the firm for about 15 years. Okosun is a fellow of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers; and a fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. “He is also a member of the International Real Estate Federation; a member of the International Facility Management Association; a member of the Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria; and an accredited member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors ACRE Civil and Commercial Mediator,” the firm said. “He holds an MBA and has attended several programme and courses at Harvard Business School relating to real estate management finance, design and leadership,” it added. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  