Ade Adesomoju and John Charles The Court of Appeal in Abuja, on Thursday, upheld the election of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State. A five-man panel led by Justice Fred Oho dismissed the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress and its governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime, to challenge Ortom’s victory at the March 9, 2019 poll. The Court of Appeal resolved all the four issues considered in the appeal against the appellants, saying the appeal lacked merit. It upheld the earlier judgment of the Benue State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal, which affirmed Ortom and his Peoples Democratic Party’s victory at the poll. The court also awarded a N150, 000 fine against Jime and the APC for filing an appeal that was lacking in merit. The counsel who represented Jime and APC, Yusuf Alli (SAN), had maintained at the hearing of his clients’ appeal that the March 9, 2019 election, declared to be won by Ortom, fell short of the standard set by provisions of the law. But Ortom’s lawyer, Sebastian Hon (SAN); INEC’s Offiong Offiong (SAN); and that of the PDP, Chris Uche (SAN), urged the court to dismiss the appeal and award cost against the appellants. They contended that the appellants failed to provide witnesses “both in quantity and in quality” to substantiate the claim that there were irregularities in the conduct of the poll. Meanwhile, the Benue PDP and Ortom, on Thursday, hailed the judgment of the Court of Appeal, which upheld the candidate’s victory. Ortom said the Appellate Court’s verdict had not only validated the earlier judgment of the Governorship Election Tribunal but also confirmed the choice of Benue voters in the 2019 polls. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said the task of building the state was the responsibility of all its people. He restated his call on Jime and other contestants in the election to join hands with him to develop Benue. The PDP, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Bemgba Ioryyom, noted that it was the faith of the party that Ortom would justify the confidence reposed in him. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 