Success Nwogu, Abuja The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, on Wednesday urged the Federal Government, governors and Local Government Area 9chairmen to be prudent in the management of resources to meet the needs of Nigerians. He stated that increase in internally generated revenue alone could not address Nigeria’s developmental needs. READ ALSO: No border reopening, until Benin, others respect protocols – FG Secondus,  represented by the PDP’s National Financial Secretary, Abdulahi Maibasira,  spoke in Abuja during the 2019 internally generated revenue summit organised by the  PDP Governors Forum in Abuja. The summit was titled, “The Imperatives of Developing Internally Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy.” He explained that beyond the issue of enhancing internally generated revenue, government officials must cut down on wastage so as to prepare for the future. He said states should move away from reliance on federal allocation to a robust internally  generated revenue to address  Nigeria’s myriads of problems. Secondus  said, “The myriad of problems facing the country, like poor infrastructure, poverty and the likes, necessitate the need for more sources of fund. But increased IGR may not solve the problem. The best way to do this is to be prudent in the management of resources. There must be a cut down in waste to be able to prepare for tomorrow.” The PDP boss said the All Progressive Congress-led Federal Government had led Nigeria to the “unenviable position of the poverty capital of the world.” According to him, it is imperative for  solutions to be found for the revenue issues hindering the performances of government. He said, ”We need to make revenue base count and make the country work. We can’t get the country working unless we do the needful.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 