IFEANYI ONUBA writes on the need for government to adopt technology in identifying, tracking, and apprehending persons who abuse its social protection initiative The  National  Social  Investment  Programme  was  borne out  of  the  need  to  reduce  the  alarming poverty  and  unemployment  rates  by  closing  the  wide  disparities  and  improving the country’s poor  human capital indices. The  programme  commenced  in  January  2016  and is  coordinated centrally by the National  Social  Investment  Office in the Office  of  the  Vice  President. Four  programmes  have  been  established so  far, namely Cash  Transfer  Programme, National  Home  Grown  School  Feeding  Programme, Job  Creation and Youth Empowerment, and  Government  Empowerment  and Enterprise  Programme. For effective impact and close collaboration, and in  alignment with the constitutional spheres of authority, the  NSIO  works  in  close  collaboration  with  the  states,Local Government Areas  and  rural  communities. This collaboration oftentimes  limit  the NSIP’s efforts  to  coordination,  enforcing  compliance,  setting  standards  and  facilitating  seamless operations  through  the  focal  person  of  each  state,  which is  a  political  appointee nominated  by  the  state  governor. This  conscious  decision  was taken  to  ensure the buy-in  and  effective  integration  in  the  states,  where  actual implementation takes place. Being a state official,  the focal persons oversees all  the activities at sub-national  level,  ensuring support,  compliance  and  publicity  at  state and  LGA levels. As  of September  20,  2019,  there  were  1,491,296  poor  and  vulnerable  households,  comprising 6,056,872  individuals  captured  on  the  National  Social  Register  across  33  states,  while  the process  for  enumeration  and  identification  has  commenced  in  the  remaining  four  states,  and  are  at various  stages  of  completion. The  National  Cash  Transfer  Programme, which delivers  cash  transfers  of N5,000  per  month   to  enrolled  caregivers  of  the  households on  the  NSR, is aimed  at  addressing  their  household  consumption  needs  and  towards  building  their capacities  for  sustainable  livelihoods immediately. About 620,947 poor and vulnerable Nigerians are currently benefitting from the Conditional Cash Transfer Programme, according to the government. Statistics from the National Social Investment Office showed that the 620,947 beneficiaries are located in 29 states of the federation. Under the CCT programme, a monthly stipend of N5,000 is paid monthly to poor and vulnerable Nigerians. Based on the 620, 947 poor people that are currently benefitting from the programme, about N3.1bn is being spent monthly by the Federal Government in the 29 states. But recently, there have been claims about corrupt practices in the implementation of the programme. The Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Mrs Maryam Uwais, gave credence to this when she said that some people were trying to undermine the success of the programme through threats for kickbacks to beneficiaries of the scheme. Speaking during a training programme for state operatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Uwais said the agency was working on how to use technology to identify, track, apprehend and prosecute persons who abuse the social protection initiative of the government. Uwais said the NSIO and the anti-graft agency had entered into collaboration to tackle the issue of corruption in the social investment programmes. She described the partnership with the ICPC as a strategic move with great potential for reducing corruption in the social investment programmes. Uwais said at the federal level, the implementation team of the programme had made successful efforts to plug leakages of corruption that could emanate from the programme. As part of the strategies adopted to promote transparency in the implementation of the programme, she said the deployment of technology would ensure that beneficiaries have Bank Verification Numbers to enable them to have direct access to their stipend. She, however, said this had yet to be achieved for cash transfer beneficiaries who, due to their limited exposure to banking structures and processes, were being paid by hired mobile money agents. She said, “What we are worried about is that our beneficiaries at the other end are being exploited and intimidated. “Many of them are receiving N5,000 for the first time in their lives. But some persons at the community level insist on getting their own share from that amount, threatening the beneficiaries that they can delist them from the programme if they do not comply. “Even though we have monitors, some of whom appear to also be part of the problem, we need as many eyes as possible in our monitoring efforts to ensure that the beneficiaries fully utilise their benefits to achieve the intended objectives of the programme.” The Chairman, ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, said the partnership between the NSIO and agency was crucial to reducing incidences of corrupt practices in the implementation of programme. He said the ICPC would work with the NSIO to be able to identify areas of vulnerabilities for effective monitoring. Analysts have said there is a need for government to deploy technology in tackling corrupt practices in the programme. The Registrar, Chartered Institute of Finance and Control of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Eohoi, said while the Federal Government’s decision to pay N5,000 stipend to vulnerable Nigerians was commendable, there was a need to review the initiative to make it more sustainable. He said, “The level of poverty in the country is very high and far beyond what can be addressed by the payment of the monthly stipend of N5,000 to vulnerable Nigerians. “While the payment is commendable, it is not sufficient in lifting people out of poverty because it is not a model that is sustainable. “The rate of poverty in the country is quite alarming and, as such, I will say rather than paying N5,000 monthly to vulnerable Nigerians, government should intensify efforts in creating an enabling environment that would promote investments in key sectors of the economy. “In doing this, there is a need to bring transparency in the management of the social investment programmes.” Also speaking, a developmental economist, Mr Afeez Balogun, said beneficiaries of the scheme should be chosen based on merit. According to him, structures should be put in place to ensure that those benefitting from the various components of the social intervention programmes are captured based on merit. He said since the process of developing a reliable social register in each state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory had begun, well-trained people should be sent to the various communities to identify the socio-economic needs of the people based on their circumstances and peculiarities. According to Balogun, since cash payments come with several challenges, steps should be taken to address this challenge through the use of money agents and financial institutions that will facilitate the transfer of cash directly to the beneficiaries. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  