Rasheed Bisiriyu Korean automaker, Kia, has released exterior images of its new K5 sedan with distinctive features showing the new design direction of its future vehicles. The new sedan, which Kia says will have ‘Tiger Nose Evolution’ design, has been released in the Korean market specifications and will go on sale in December. Kia says the latest model offers a fresh and innovative new look for the sedan segment and showcases the auto maker’s bold new design. It adds, “The new Kia K5 brings with it a sporty, modern and bold character. The front of the car is characterised by Kia’s imposing new ‘Tiger Nose Evolution’, a wide, three-dimensional design which integrates the grille and headlamps more organically than previous iterations of the K5. “The texture of the grille is modelled on the texture of shark skin which has powerful and sporty image. The grille is made with a matrix of interlocking details to give the K5 a classy and dynamic look. The K5’s new front headlamps feature a distinctive ‘heartbeat’ daytime running light signature.” Kia explains that above the grille, the deeply-contoured hood and characteristic lower bumper emphasises the smooth lines on the front of the car and enhances the K5’s on-road presence. It says that the profile of the K5 displays a greater sense of muscularity than its predecessor, with the body narrowing slightly at the midpoint between wheel arches while a distinctive crease runs the length of the K5’s body, with a dash of chrome above the car’s new frameless windows adding greater drama to its flowing, fastback roofline. The automaker gives part of the detailed features of the all-new K5 as having been designed in a longer and wider frame than its predecessor. Its length has been extended by 50mm to 4,905mm and the width by 25mm to 1,860 mm. The wheelbase is extended to 2,850mm providing a stable driving character. It is also said to have a 20mm drop in height to 1,445mm, thus creating a low-slung sporty profile. “The back of the K5 has a new rear-combination lamp design which provides a sporty silhouette mirrored by the three-dimensional design of the K5’s subtle rear wing. The unique rear light signature mirrors the slender ‘heartbeat’ motif found at the front of the car, while the flash of chrome from the roofline loops around the base of the rear screen, unifying the side and rear profile,” it adds. According to the automaker, the K5 will be available with a range of new 19-, 18-, 17- or 16-inch machine-cut aluminium alloy wheel designs with from gloss black to dark gray and light gray. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 