Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Chief Executive Officer, RevolutionPlus Property, Mr Bamidele Onalaja, has said as part of the firm’s contribution to efforts to reduce the country’s housing deficit, it will add 10,000 units to its housing stock in the next five years. Onalaja said in the last five years, RevolutionPlus had provided over 5,000 affordable houses to Nigerians both at home and those abroad. Speaking at the unveiling of the company’s end of the year promo and new ambassador, a Nollywood actress, Omoni Oboli, he said the firm’s target was to get more Nigerians to own homes. Onalaja said, “As it is often said, the three major things for everyone are shelter, food and clothing. Every year, it is our culture to roll out promos at every festive season. “Our Christmas and new year promo which is running from November 15 to January 15 is to help more people become homeowners with reduced prices and other gifts. “We have also unveiled our brand ambassador, Omoni Oboli, who will be join our other brand ambassadors to create a niche for the company.” Onolaja stated that the company had been supporting potential homeowners through the provision of interest-free mortgages and instalment payments. “Funding is a major problem for developers because interest rates from banks are killing. But we have been able to avoid fast loans; we do not owe any bank; we work within our means,” he added. He said the firm chose Oboli because she had been scandal-free and a track record of integrity. Oboli told journalists that the partnership was perfect as she shared the same business values with RevolutionPlus. She stated that the partnership would help the industry to achieve more milestones towards housing delivery. “One of the problems I see with housing is funding; so we have a form of plan to spread payments for potential homeowners because in Nigeria, we do not have a strong mortgage system and interest rates on loans are high,” she said. She added that through the partnership, more Nigerians in the Diaspora would be encouraged to key into the firm’s projects. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  