John Audu is the Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers, Victoria Island Branch. In this interview with MAUREEN IHUA-MADUENYI, he says the country’s potential in construction has not been explored How would you rate Nigeria’s construction as well as engineering industry? The response should be obvious, but it will be better to look at it from several perspectives, beginning with the obvious ones. With a housing deficit of about 20 million, I would say there are great opportunities for the construction industry in Nigeria. However, developments in this area certainly leave a lot to be desired at the moment. If your question is directed at infrastructure in general, my response is the same as above. The commitment of the present administration towards improving infrastructure is quite commendable, but in many respects, it may not be sustainable until the technology being utilised is either properly assimilated/internalised or, more importantly, homegrown. Engineering in Nigeria in some areas is quite advanced. I know there is the general issue with the quality of education nowadays. In spite of all that, many of our engineers are actually experts in their various disciplines. What they lack is the opportunity to perform visibly, and in many cases, the confidence to explore, to be adventurous. Until recently, the government did not have deliberate policies for strategically engaging Nigerian engineers. Additionally, the daily arduous task of providing for yourself and loved ones can stifle creativity. What aspects of the industry would you like to see improved by the government and other stakeholders? I would like to see massive improvements in infrastructure development, particularly roads, railways and power. But the improvement efforts must be led by Nigerian engineers, not foreigners. What is your view on the level of involvement of indigenous firms in government’s capital projects? I am very dissatisfied. Like I alluded to in a previous response, we must make deliberate policies that ensure that companies owned and managed by Nigerian engineers are engaged not only in the design of these projects, but in their construction as well. No other administration in the history of Nigeria has done more in this regard than the present one, and we are grateful for these strides. But a lot more still needs to be done to make it happen. The local content law was signed sometime last year by President Muhammadu Buhari. Do you think there has been adequate implementation and has it made any difference in the industry? It’s still too early to tell, but it’s an excellent step in the right direction. The president of the Nigerian Society of Engineers applauded that during a recent visit to the President. As the chairman of Victoria Island Branch of the NSE, what measures do you think should be taken to address flooding and town planning problems in the area? There should be public enlightenment on flood prevention and disaster mitigation; enforcement of proper town planning practices; proper waste disposal; proper drainage design and construction. There should also be government intervention in the enforcement of standards and the provision of holistic drainage design parameters. What in your opinion can be done to improve the industry’s contribution to the GDP? We must create an atmosphere that engenders creativity and innovation among our engineers, particularly the youths, at all levels and by all stakeholders – both private and public sectors. One of our strategic initiatives at the Victoria Island branch of the NSE is to ‘perversely innovate’. We are acting very quickly towards supporting the ideas from the most innovative minds among our engineers, particularly those that proffer solutions to fundamental challenges in our society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 