Igoniko Daniels and Ademola Babalola The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, says he is the winner of Saturday’s governorship election. He said this at a press briefing in Yenagoa on Monday. Among those present at the media event were Diri’s running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo; PDP’s Vice-Chairman, South-South Zone, Emmanuel Ogidi; a member of the state House of Assembly, Munalayefa Gibson; and the governorship candidates of some political parties that participated in the election. The Independent National Electoral Commission had on Sunday declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, David Lyon, as the winner of the election. But the PDP candidate said that the figures declared by the commission did not reflect what transpired at the polling units and urged INEC to declare him as the governor-elect. Diri said the Situation Room of his campaign organisation had the “real” figures of the election which represented the choice of the people, stressing that the APC did not win the election. He said, “Recall that yesterday (Sunday), I addressed a  press conference during which I informed you that we had a Situation Room that was monitoring the exercise. “As we speak today, I have the results of that monitoring. In the Brass Local Government Area, the APC had 2,525 (votes), the PDP had 4,096 votes; in the Ekeremor LGA, APC had 8,780, PDP had 21,381; in Kolokuma/Opokuma, APC had 6,659, PDP had 12,110; in Nembe LGA, the  APC had 980 votes, PDP had 24 votes. “In the Ogbia LGA, APC had 7, 967, PDP had 9,903 votes; at the Sagbama LGA, APC had 7,831 votes while the PDP had 60,339 votes; in the Southern Ijaw LGA, the APC had 9,542 votes while the PDP had 12,225 votes. In the Yenagoa LGA, APC had 15, 560 votes, PDP had 21,165. “In total, the APC had 55, 903 votes; PDP had 98,582.” He described as “a ruse and charade” the results declared by the commission. He also argued that the APC had no place on the ballot paper following court judgments few days before the election day. Diri said when asked by the state PDP agent, Osusu O. Osusu, to produce a copy of the court judgement the APC claimed to have which set aside the ruling of the lower court, INEC could not do anything. He added, “Therefore, we urgently call on INEC to declare me the winner of that election.” The PDP standard bearer also decried the indiscriminate intimidation and arrest of members of the party by soldiers allegedly working for the APC to rig the election. But the spokesperson for the Nigerian Army, 16 Brigade, Lt. Col. Dauda, had denied the allegations,saying the soldiers “only assisted the police to do their work.” Oyo APC mocks Makinde Meanwhile, the APC in Oyo State has accused Governor Seyi Makinde of abandoning his duty post to participate in the governorship polls in Kogi State which the APC candidate won with a landslide margin. In a statement issued on Monday, the state APC Assistant Publicity Secretary, Mr Ayobami Adewuyi, said Makinde was overrated by his party. “He (Makinde) should have limited his contribution to the PDP campaigns in Kogi State to cash donations alone since he did not see any reasons why the resources of our dear state should not be squandered the way he is doing but he also went too far by making himself available for days in an election taking place in a northern state that is far away from his own domain and thus abandoned his responsibilities at home.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     