Ademola Babalola, Ibadan Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday approved the sum of N170m for the production of 100,000 copies of a compendium for pupils sitting for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination. The state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Dahud Sangodoyin, said the compendium would contain 10-year past questions and solutions in 10 subjects for both the public and private schools in the state. He said the compendium would be given free of charge to public and private schools in Oyo state. “The financial implication on the production of the compendium is N1,700 per copy, which makes a total of N170m for 100,000 copies. “We are going to address the proprietors of private schools and principals of secondary schools in the state on the modus operandi in terms of the usage of these compendiums,” he said. The commissioner said the compendium was meant for SS3 students in the state, saying the aim was to improve on their external ratings in their external examinations. Sangodoyin said the governor had also approved e-training of teachers in schools across the state, saying they would soon give a timetable to the public on skills developments. Speaking on the recruitment of teachers, he said they had been given approval to recruit teachers in principle but had yet to advertise for the recruitment of teachers. Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday approved N9.9bn for the reconstruction of Moniya-Ijaye-Iseyin road. The state Commissioner for Works and Transport, Prof. Raphael Afonja, told journalists in Ibadan after the State Executive Council meeting that the road had been awarded to Kopek with a completion period of 12 months. The contract was initially awarded at about N7bn by the immediate past administration of Senator Abiola Ajimobi. READ ALSO: Suswam absent from fraud trial, cites Senate duty The contractor was mobilised with N2bn but Makinde decried the level of work done with the sum and revoked it. The commissioner said, “I must say that one of the things that is captured in the approval process is that this road will be completed in 12 months. “We have selected a contractor that will be carrying out this project in the person of Kopek and we are hoping that by the end of the week, they will mobilise to site and start work. “So, we look forward to getting this road completed by this time next year,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 