Anna Okon The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has graduated about 45 entrepreneurs from its 2019 mentoring programme. This is the seventh edition of the programme, the President of the LCCI, Mr Babatunde Ruwase, who was represented by the Vice President, LCCI, Mrs Toki Mabogunje, said this in Lagos on Thursday during the graduation ceremony. Ruwase said, “It is a new dawn for us at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry as today marks the completion of the 2019 phase of the mentoring programme and new beginning for all the mentees that we have groomed from 2013 till date. “In a space of seven years, the mentoring programme has groomed a total of 293 entrepreneurs and it is my pleasure to stand before you today to launch the Mentoring Alumni Association. “It is important that we bring together all our mentoring alumni to form a formidable team that can lend support to one another and thus give that competitive edge in today’s tough business environment.” He urged the graduates to see one another as business partners who could work together to grow their respective businesses and build Nigeria. The LCCI leader said, “Healthy collaboration is what our nation can thrive on and I see you all as game-changers who can turn around our economy for good. “We have nominated interim officers among you who are temporarily overseeing the affairs of the alumni. I enjoin you to lend your support to them.” The Chairman, Board of ‘BEST’ Unit, LCCI, Dr Michael Olawale-Cole, said the focus of the LCCI in developing young small business operators was a means of investing in their future and guaranteeing a better tomorrow for them. He advised the graduates to make the best out of the opportunity of becoming full members of the chamber and to be good ambassadors of the mentoring programme. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 