Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The All Progressives Congress in the South-South met in Abuja on Thursday night and passed a vote of confidence in the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The meeting, which was presided over by the National Vice-Chairman South-South, Hillard Eta, had in attendance elders and leaders of the party in the geopolitical zone including Chief Don Etiebet, Senator Ndoma Egba, Senator Ita Enang and Chief Umanah Umanah. Notable absent were the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio and his Transportation counterpart, Rotimi Amaechi. At the meeting, some party chieftains expressed worry about the attitude of some members in the zone working against the national chairman. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo Agege, who described Oshiomhole as “our own that must not be antagonised,” appealed for support for the former Edo State governor. Read also:Uproar as Buhari makes fresh request for $29.96bn loan He said, “Why are we antagonising our own? We have to stand by him. The party in the zone hasn’t fared very well. It is important to close ranks against the raging war.” Eta also appealed to aggrieved members to sheathe their swords and work together. “In Edo and Rivers states, we must find a solution to the problem. I want to beg all warring parties to sheathe their swords,” he added. Oshiomhole expressed delight over the large turnout of members despite the cynicism that trailed the open invitation to all members of the South-South caucus. He acknowledged the raging crisis in Edo State but said he was determined to make concessions for genuine reconciliation. At the end of the meeting, Omo Agege was elected as the APC leader in the South-South zone. A committee was set up to look into the crisis rocking the Edo and Cross River states’ chapters of the party. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 