Peter Dada, Akure Following the recent sacking of some presidential aides, a group under the auspices of the Nigerian Youths Alliance, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to reinstate the presidential aides that were recently sacked . Thirty-five presidential aides attached to the office of the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, were sacked by the Presidency last week. To this end, the chairman of the group, Mr Akinsiji Ololade, who stated this on Monday in Akure, the state capital,  said the action of the President was allegedly targeted at the youths because most of the victims were youths. According to him, there was a need for all pro-youth groups in the country to rise up against the action of the Presidency. He said, “While we as a group respect the constitutionally guaranteed right of the President to hire and fire,  but it is most unfortunate that the purge is deliberately targeted against the youths, who, as the President himself has repeatedly acknowledged, are the true agents of the change movement that brought him to power. “Considering that the Presidency has not hinted that the sacked aides committed any specific offences, it is therefore safe to say the young men and women relieved of their job today were thrown out because President Buhari, who himself first became President at a young age of 40, can no longer hide his distaste for youth political emancipation. “We admit that age or being youthful is not the only criterion for participating in governance. But every nation that has attained greatness knows that it takes a combination of the wisdom of the old and the energy and know-how of the young to drive a country towards everlasting prosperity. “It therefore beats imagination how the Buhari led government that constantly mouths ‘sustained prosperity’ hopes to deliver sustainability in both programs and policies when it drives away youths who are the true owners of the future.” Ololade urged the President to allow youths in his administration, saying most developed countries of the world, had youths as leaders and the Nigerian government should not discourage the youths from participating in governance.