Olalekan Adetayo, Sunday Aborisade,  James Abraham and Godwin Isenyo  The Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere and the Middle Belt Forum on Wednesday lashed out at the Senate over the hate speech bill, which passed the first reading on Tuesday. While Afenifere described the bill as the handiwork of enemies of open society, the Middle Belt Forum said the Senate was paying attention tp trivialities. Both groups said this as the Federal Government said the hate speech bill was already captured in the cybercrime law. The National President of the Middle Belt Forum, Dr Bitrus Porgu, who spoke with one of our correspondents in Jos on Wednesday, said the lawmakers had abandoned serious national issues to engage in trivialities. He stated, “Except they (lawmakers) are pursuing an agenda to serve certain personal interests, I think the nation has more serious issues that should engage their attention instead of seeking to pass a bill on hate speech.” On its part,  Afenifere,  described the controversial bill as a legislative piece proposed by enemies of an open society. The group’s spokesman, Mr Yinka Odumakin, said this in an interview with one our correspondents on Wednesday. He said, “It is interesting that people are now talking about hate speech. If the law had been in place in 2014 or thereabouts, most of them proposing the law now would have been killed by now because of their utterances then. They used hate speech that time, and now they want to kill free speech.” ACF backs moves to regulate social media but… But the Secretary General of the Arewa Consultative Forum, Mr Anthony Sani, supported the bill. He, however, did not support death sentence as the maximum punishment for hate speech. Sani said, “There can be no cavil in the significance of regulation of social media. This is because no organisation can be successful without any form of regulation. “I believe social media is very important, especially to the nation’s youth in the sense that it provides platforms for youths to vent their feelings and speak to power in engendering progress that comes from change through interactions.” ‘Senate ‘ll protect citizens interest’ The Senate urged Nigerians to exercise patience, assuring them that the legislation would protect their interest. Acting Senate spokesperson,  Godiya Akwashiki, stated this  while addressing journalists in Abuja. He said the bill would be killed by senators during second reading if they discovered that it would not serve the interest of Nigerians. He noted that the hate speech billwould be subjected to normal legislative process and that senators would along the line, decide whether to pass or reject it. “If it is a bill that will create hardship for the people of Nigeria and crisis, it will be killed on the floor of the Senate by senators when it comes for second reading “I want to urge Nigerians to exercise patience with the Senate because it is not wise or legally right for me to discuss a bill that has not been mentioned for the second time on the floor of the Senate. “I want to assure you that even if the bill scale second reading on the floor of the Senate,  we are working for the progress and betterment of Nigerians.” Hate speech already captured in cybercrime law – FG But the Federal Government said the Cybercrime Act already captured the punishment for hate speech. The reaction came after the day’s Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. State House Correspondents put the question to the Minister of Information and Culture, Mr Lai Mohammed, on the relevance of the new bill, considering that a more serious crime like corruption attracted lesser punishment. Mohammed re-directed the question to the Minister of State (Transportation), Ms Gbemi Saraki. The former senator, in her response, said Cybercrime Act already covered hate speech. Saraki said, “It is a bill, it’s not yet law. So, the sponsor of the bill might have put the death penalty there. I think we are jumping the gun a bit; like you said, he is proposing the bill, it is not yet an act. “I think the Cybercrime Act is a law already in Nigeria that has the hate speech aspect in it…I think it was passed in 2014/2015. Cybercrime is now a major issue and everybody is concerned about it being  the new frontier to fight crime. So, hate speech is within that cybercrime aspect.” The Act also “prescribes the death penalty for an offence committed against a system or network that has been designated critical national infrastructure of Nigeria that results in the death of an individual (amongst other punishments for lesser crimes).” The controversial hate speech bill was sponsored by Deputy Senate Whip, Senator Sabi Abdullahi, and passed first reading on Tuesday. He had earlier sponsored the bill at the 8th Senate where it failed. It prescribes death by hanging as maximum penalty for an offence of hate speech.  .Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     