Olaide Oyelude for Gbenga Odogun The Independent National Electoral Commission, on Thursday, took delivery of sensitive materials to be used on Saturday for the by-election to fill the vacant seat of Sabuwa State Constituency of the Katsina House of Assembly. The materials, which included ballot papers and result sheets, were hitherto in the custody of the Katsina office of the Central Bank of Nigeria. The Resident Electoral Commissioner in Katsina, Alhaji Jibrin Zarewa, who supervised the exercise, said, “We are set for the by-election. The items are being sent to Sabuwa now and we are tracking the movements of the vehicles conveying them for safe arrival.” According to the REC, five candidates are to contest the by-election, including Ibrahim Danjuma (APC), Sagir Isa Bako (MPN), Idris Sabiu (NLDP), Dahiru Ahmed (PDC), and Ibrahim Shafiu (PDP). The by-election is due to the death of the former occupant of the seat, Mustapha Abdullahi. Meanwhile, in Kogi State, the Independent National Electoral Commission on Thursday commenced the distribution of electoral materials to the polling units where the Kogi West supplementary election would be held. The supplementary election is scheduled to hold on Saturday in 53 polling units  and 22 polling units in Ajaokuta Federal constituency. The materials, which were stored at the Central Bank of Nigeria, Lokoja, were received in the presence of INEC officials, including the National Commissioner for Kogi, Kwara and Nasarawa states, Mohammed Haruna, the state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. James Apam, representatives of the concerned political parties, personnel from security agencies and reporters. Haruna said, “We are taking the materials for the 53 polling units in the Kogi West Senatorial District and the Ajaokuta Federal Constituency. “We are ready; all the materials are here, and we are set to receive them from the CBN. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 