Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Female politicians on Tuesday made a case for the establishment of a special political party for women to be able to realise their quest for increased participation in governance and representation in politics. They said such a political party would be an avenue for women to contest and win elections. The women politicians, drawn from different political parties, spoke in Ado Ekiti at a two-day interactive forum on Increasing Women’s Representation in Ekiti and Osun states, organised by Reclaim Naija as part of efforts to facilitate increased women representation in politics. The Peoples Democratic Party chieftain and former chairman, Gbonyin Local Government Area in Ekiti State, Mrs Sade Akinrinmola, said the time had come for all women to come under the umbrella of one party and wrest power from men. Akinrinmola said, “We are facing a lot of challenges with men. Very few women can make it in politics because of lack of financial wherewithal and all sorts of abuses. “But if we have a special party where we can all converge, it will be easy to mobilise ourselves to fight during elections because we have the numerical strength.” The Osun State Commissioner for Information, Funke Egbemode, said political empowerment for women was germane to the development of any nation. Egbemode, who was represented by Mrs Oyeboade Shaniyi, said, “I know, with efforts like this, women will get there. We should stop running ourselves down as women. We must encourage one another and work together.” The Programme Manager, Community Live Project, Reclaim Naija, Mr Francis Onahor, urged women to play active roles in politics and fight for elective positions to bring meaningful development to Nigeria. Onahor said, “In the 2015 elections, Ekiti State had two female senators but has one in 2019. There is none in Osun State. Though we know that there are few women in the assembly in these states, the numbers are not enough compared to the roles women play in politics.” A former Chief Whip, Osun State House of Assembly, Funmilayo Olasehinde, said few women were successful in politics in view of socio-economic constraints. The Senior Special Assistant on Politics and Community Affairs to the wife of Ekiti Governor, Mrs Remi Ajayi Babington, identified marital issues among major impediments working against women in Nigerian politics. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 