Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority on Friday disclosed that construction work on the Second Niger Bridge has reached over 40 per cent. The disclosure came exactly one week after the construction giant, Julius Berger,  put the percentage of construction works so far completed on the bridge at approximately 28 per cent. The NSIA made the revelation in messages posted on its Twitter handle, @nsia_nigeria. It disclosed that the decking stage of the bridge, which will last 32 weeks, will commence next week. It expressed the optimism that the project scheduled to be completed in 2020 will boost economic activities across the country. The tweets read, “Second Niger Bridge is over 40 per cent complete. “Significant work has been done along the 11.9km stretch of on-going construction. “The decking phase for the bridge commences next week and will last for another 32 weeks. “At completion, the Second Niger Bridge will ease travel time through the Eastern region and boost economic activity across the country. “We expect completion by 2022.” Recall that the Managing Director of the NSIA, Uche Orji, had disclosed that the agency is a joint sponsor on the financing and construction of the bridge. Construction giant, Julius Berger, had last Friday put the percentage of construction works so far completed on the bridge at approximately 28 per cent. The firm also released pictures showing how far work has progressed on the bridge that connects Delta and Anambra States. In the report dated November 15, 2019,  the firm stated that the scope of works comprise of 1.6km long River Niger Bridge and 10.3km highway inclusive Owerri interchange and toll station. The report stated that the letter of award for the project was issued on July 25, 2018, and the contract was signed on August 14, 2018. Work commenced on the project site on September 1, 2018, while the contract period was captured in the report as 42 months. It was also learnt that the total manpower on the site was 1,201. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   