Olaleye Aluko, Abuja All is not well with the students of the Suleiman Bara’u Science and Technical College, Kwamba in the Suleja area of Niger State, as they sleep daily on bare floor in dilapidated hostels and defecate in the bush. Apart from the sorry state of the four hostels which house the students, the creaky buildings lack toilets and students are forced to drink unhygienic water, a practice which may soon lead to an outbreak of water borne disease and other related ailments. A visit to the school on Monday by our correspondent revealed the pitiable state of the hostels, which the students claimed the management had failed to repair. The students said some of them were already fallen sick due to lack of amenities, and when they were taken to the school bay, they were only given Paracetamol. The college has four hostels namely Ladi Kwali, Abuja, Zuma and Gurara. Our correspondent observed that only one of the hostels, Gurara, was habitable, having being renovated by some old students of the college a few years ago. Our correspondent learnt that at least 30 students stayed in each of the hostels, while most of them sneaked out at night to sleep with the locals because of the pitiable state of the hostels. One of the students, who simply identified himself as Muhammed, said during the rainy season, the hostels were flooded and they had to stay awake all night, waiting for the floodwater to recede. He said, “Mosquitoes come in freely in the evenings; some of us sleep under mosquito nets but because of lack of windows, there is cold and all kinds of wild animals come in freely. “During the rainy season, the water enters through the windows and the leaky roof and the rooms are flooded. This makes it difficult for us to sleep anytime it rains. We are forced to stand throughout the duration of the rain. “We have no toilets; we go to the bush to defecate. Our bathrooms are without doors and we are always exposed to danger.” Another student, John, added, “Every time, students are usually sick. Whenever anyone is sick, he goes to the clinic where you will be given only Paracetamol tablets irrespective of whatever disease you are suffering from. “We have complained several times to the school authorities but there has been no response from them.” The college began its current session on September 9, 2019 and has Technical 1 to Technical 3 students. Our correspondent was told that each of the students paid N5,000 to register as boarders. Another student, identified only as Kazeem, said, “We have no security. We are the ones securing ourselves in these hostels. Just on Sunday, the locals dropped one bowl that contains fetish materials near one of the hostels. We live in fear. Snakes and scorpions do enter these hostels at will. Goats come in and defecate everywhere.” Also, Wisdom a Technical Class 3 student, said apart from being exposed to the vagaries of the element, poisonous animals and insect also dealt with the students. READ ALSO: Border closure did not make China great He said, “Scorpions had never stung me before in my life. I was just sleeping one evening and the scorpion crept in and stung me. It was my friends that treated me. They cut the place and rubbed onions on my leg.” None of the teachers, because of fear of persecution, was willing to be interviewed by our correspondent as of the time of visit. The Niger State Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Aliyu Abubakar, could also not be reached for comment as of press time as his phone rang out. Also, the state Commissioner for Education, Hajia Hannatu Salihu, could not be reached for comment as of press time. The commissioners, who were inaugurated on October 31, 2019, were said to be attending a retreat. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 