Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The All Progressives Congress in Bayelsa State has said the incoming administration of the state governor-elect, David Lyon, will review “the clandestine employments and appointments in the state civil service.” The APC said this is in a statement in Yenagoa while reacting to the appointment and subsequent inauguration of 35 new permanent secretaries by Governor Seriake Dickson, barely three months to the end of his tenure. The governor had on Friday swore in the new permanent secretaries and a commissioner, Felix Sam-Ateki, at the Government House, Yenagoa. He also noted that the newly appointed acting Head of Service, Mrs Biobelemoye Charles-Onyeama, whose appointment was based on seniority, would be inaugurated this week after the completion of her training at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Jos, Plateau State. But the APC, in the statement signed by the state publicity secretary, Alabo Martins, described the appointments as politically motivated. The APC said, “If the outgoing administration was aware of the existence of these vacancies in the top echelon of the public service of the state and that the situation was creating a lull in the service, why were the vacancies left unfilled until the evening tide of the administration? “No doubt, the appointments are in bad taste just as the motive is clearly political. We appreciate the fact that until February 14, 2020, the present administration has the constitutional powers to hire and fire, but this responsibility should be carried out in the best interest of the state and its people. “We, therefore, advise the state government to do the right thing for the sake of posterity because we as a party will review the eligibility of the clandestine employments and appointments to make the civil service bloated in order to incapacitate the incoming government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 