Nike Popoola The Compliance Institute for Banks and Other Financial Institutions in Nigeria says it is set to induct new members during its upcoming induction ceremony. The President, Compliance Institute, Nigeria, Pattison Boleigha, said this during a press briefing in Lagos. He said, “A total of 276 members have successfully qualified for the award of the institute’s compliance professional qualifications in examinations conducted in 2019. We have 262 members, who took and passed the Designate, Compliance Professional examinations. “We are  also inducting six Associates, Compliance Institute, Nigeria who applied and got exemptions as compliance practitioners with the requisite qualifications and experience) and eight Honorary Fellowships of  Fellow, Compliance Institute, Nigeria certifications. All the certificates will be officially awarded.” He said members who had successfully completed the professional examinations and certifications of the institute in 2019 as well as award of prizes to deserving top performers in the examinations were expected at the event. The CIN president said, “As we congratulate the inductees for their gallant efforts in taking and passing the institute’s examinations, we are hopeful that these new select crop of professionals will help reshape the corporate compliance culture in Nigeria, Africa and indeed the world. “The skills, knowledge and expertise that they have gained will enhance their professional competencies and enable them to secure good compliance jobs and professional dignity that will help you provide value added services to their employers, thus furthering the standards and developments of the compliance profession.” He said that their induction as professional members naturally imposed on them the challenges of having to stand tall in integrity, impeccable in character, professional in service, alert to global trends and uphold high ethical and professional standards. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 