Afeez Hanafi and Daud Olatunji Two persons lost their lives while six others suffered varying degrees of burns after a petrol-laden tanker fell and exploded at Bible College bus stop, Sango, along the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Ogun State. About 17 vehicles, including a Dangote truck loaded with bags of cement, also got burnt in the incident that occurred around 11.30pm on Thursday. This is just as the state Governor, Mr Dapo Abiodun, in a statement on Friday commiserated with the victims, promising that the incessant accidents on the expressway would soon be a thing of the past. A motorist, Muhammed Abdullahi, who witnessed the incident said the container on the tanker tilted and he quickly disembarked from his vehicle to inform the driver of the imminent danger. The eyewitness said he was approaching the truck when the tanker skidded off and went up in flames. ‘Container fell while driver was driving against traffic’ At the scene of the incident on Friday morning, Abdullahi told our correspondent that the tanker driver was driving against the traffic heading for Lagos. He said some people informed him that soldiers were ahead controlling traffic and would send him back. Abdullahi said the driver wanted to make a U-turn to connect the right lane when the tanker tilted to one side. He stated, “The tanker driver was driving against traffic. Some people told him that soldiers were in the front and that they would stop him. As he wanted to turn back, the vehicle tilted and the container wanted to fall. “I was not far from the tanker. I saw when it wanted to fall and rushed out of my vehicle to tell the driver. It suddenly fell and in less than one minute, it caught fire. Firefighters didn’t come on time. About 10 minutes after they arrived, they said water had finished. Many vehicles were burnt.” Another eyewitness, who gave his name only as Sunkanmi, said while the fire raged on, some hoodlums pounced on a van conveying sachets of confectionery and stole the product. He said, “I was there throughout the night while the fire was burning. I saw a rescued victim. His skin had peeled away. There was a man who parked his vehicle at a distance when he saw the fire. The fire later spread to where the car was around 2am and burnt it. “A man and his wife were trapped in their car. The man was able to escape but his wife got burnt. Unfortunately some ‘bad boys’ saw the incident as an opportunity to steal. They vandalised a van loaded with confectionery and stole as many as they could.” The incident resulted in gridlock which held many for hours while others who got the news of the explosion from far distance were forced to take deplorable inner roads. The Ogun State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Clement Oladele, in a statement on Friday confirmed that two persons – a man and woman – were killed in the fire while six persons were injured. He identified the vehicles trapped in the fire as a tanker, nine trucks, two buses, a Toyota Camry, a Toyota Sienna and a trailer. “A blue truck filled with bundles of confectionery sachets and a Dangote Cement truck were burnt. Two burnt corpses were evacuated to the Ifo General Hospital mortuary, Ogun State. The six injured victims were rescued to the hospital,” Oladele added. The sector commander said the tanker was suspected to have had a mechanical fault which resulted in the accident. “The spilled contents spread from the ShopRite Mall in Sango up to the FRSC Command Office located at the old Tollgate, destroying vehicles and other property. “Motorists especially tanker drivers transporting flammable products should adhere strictly to the 1957  United Nations  Agreement Concerning  the International Carriage of Dangreous Goods by Roads which Nigeria was recently a signatory to. The ADR requires trucks conveying dangerous goods, including petroleum products to be installed with tanker’s seal valve, which prevents the liquefied contents from spilling its contents in the event of a road traffic crash.” Joint takeover of road’ll end avoidable deaths –Abiodun Meanwhile, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, said the planned takeover of the road by both the Ogun and Lagos state governments would end unnecessary loss of lives and property on the highway. He said, “I am most distressed by the news of the midnight inferno at Sango, which was the result of an accident by a fuel-laden truck. “It is heartbreaking that many lives were lost in addition to properties running into millions of naira. This sad occurrence has made our quest to take over the management of this road more compelling. The incessant road mishap around the toll gate axis is avoidable. “While I commiserate with those who lost their loved ones and property, we shall do everything humanly possible to forestall a recurrence. I use this opportunity to once again plead that the Federal Government should approve the request of both the Ogun and Lagos state governments to take over this all-important Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  