Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Tragedy struck on Aduke Street in the Ajegunle area of Lagos State on Thursday as an explosion at a gas refilling shop killed at least seven persons and left 21 others with multiple burnt injuries. It was gathered that the explosion which occurred around 4pm, was caused by gas leakage. PUNCH Metro learnt that the explosion also affected two houses and three other shops in the area. According to the Director General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, the explosion occurred when a yet-to-be-identified resident made a phone call around the area of the leakage. Although Oke-Osanyintolu stated that only two children died in the explosion, the state police command, however, said five persons lost their lives. Oke-Osanyintolu, who identified one of the deceased as Damilare Afolabi, noted that the remains were handed over to the family. He said, “Upon arrival at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a gas cylinder had exploded as a result of leakage. Further investigation revealed that the fire ignited as a result of a phone call being made by an unidentified resident, which escalated to nearby shops and a bungalow behind the shops. “All the casualties are being evacuated to the Burns Unit of the Gbagada General Hospital and the entire area has been cordoned off and post-disaster assessment is ongoing.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the combined effort of the police, LASEMA, the state fire service and other emergency responders helped in extinguishing the fire. “Five persons were consumed by the fire, which affected two houses and three shops. It started from a gas retail shop. Preliminary investigation indicated that the fire was caused by a gas explosion, but we are still investigating the incident,”he stated. LASEMA later gave an update through its spokesperson, Nosa Okunbor, that two of the survivors later died. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 