Peter Dada, Akure The Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, on Thursday said for the country to attain its full potential, Nigerians must be pragmatic in choosing their leaders. El-Rufai stated this at the 2019 Ajasin Foundation Colloquium organised in honour of the first governor of Ondo State, the late Adekunle Ajasin, held in Akure, the state capital. Speaking on the theme, ‘Promoting economic development, social justice and rule of law as pathways to stability, peace and prosperity in Nigeria,’  el-Rufai stressed that Nigerians must have access to justice, if the elite must enjoy their wealth. He said, “Those people that are saying politicians messed up the country are at fault because our best never join politics. They are all working with oil companies and so on. “When the bad politicians are messing up the country, they are shouting. You better come and join us to collectively move the country forward. “If we must make progress as a nation, the laws of the land must balance.  One of the problems of the country is that the elite are not sitting down to agree on the minimum. They should make the country work, because if the country works, they will be the greatest beneficiary.” In his remarks, the Ondo State governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, said without the rule of law, there could not be any meaningful development in the country. Represented by his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi, the governor noted that the difference between Nigeria and any other country of the world is that the people, including Nigerians always obey their laws over there. “When Nigerians returned to the country, they started showing their status. Some we say, I am the governor or the deputy governor. Without rule of law, there can’t be social justice,” Akeredolu stated. Earlier in her welcome address, the Non-Executive Secretary of the foundation, Mrs Jumoke Anifowose, explained that the foundation was founded in 1999 in honour of the late former governor. Anifowose, who is a daughter of the late former governor, also said her father’s life was marked by unwaivering belief in the cause of social justice, equity and fair play. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 