“It is an emblematic brand, an American icon that will become a little bit French,” LVMH’s chief executive Bernard Arnault told AFP. “It has lots of potentials and an incredible history.” Tiffany, founded in 1837 and headquartered on glamorous Fifth Avenue in New York, has long symbolised tony American sophistication, most memorably in the 1961 film “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” starring Audrey Hepburn, based on the Truman Capote novella. READ ALSO: N32.9bn alleged scam: Court remands Mompha in prison The companies said in a statement that LVMH will acquire Tiffany for $135 a share in cash in a transaction with an equity value of approximately 14.7 billion euros or $16.2 billion. “These are clients who, unlike in fashion, are interested in permanence and buy a jewel to keep, but also to pass on,” Arnault told AFP. “When you buy a beautiful dress, it’s rare that after a few dozen years this dress will still seem contemporary,” he said. Tiffany had been lagging behind its rivals in terms of sales growth in recent years and is expected to benefit from LVMH’s extensive global network and promotional power. “Applying this marketing and communication machinery should go a long way in making Tiffany more relevant in design jewellery and watches,” said Luca Solca, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, according to Bloomberg News. The addition of Tiffany to LVMH’s jewellery holdings, which already include Bulgari, Chaumet, Tag Heuer and Hublot, vaults it past Swiss-based Richemont, which holds Cartier among other brands. Richemont led the pack with a 14.8 per cent share of the luxury jewellery market in 2017, according to data from Euromonitor International. But with Tiffany at 10.8 per cent and LVMH at 7.5 per cent, combined they will now lead the segment. Tiffany’s shares closed trading on Friday at $125.51. They were trading around $90 per share at the beginning of October, before LVMH first began to make overtures to Tiffany’s management. LVMH shares were up 1.1 per cent in afternoon trading at 400.75 euros, and have climbed since the group first announced a bid for Tiffany, reaching a record high of 407.85 euros earlier this month. “Some companies in the retail sector have complained about softer demand, but luxury brands tend to hold up well when economies cool as the mega rich usually fare better in a cooler economic climate,” said David Madden at CMC Markets UK. The boards of directors of both companies have approved the acquisition, with Tiffany’s board recommending that shareholders approve the transaction. The deal is expected to close in the middle of 2020 following approval by Tiffany’s shareholders and regulators. LVMH is the world’s largest luxury group, posting record sales of 46.8 billion euros in 2018, for a net profit of 7 billion euros. (AFP)