Maiharaji Altine, Gusau The Zamfara State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Alhaji Ibrahim Danmaliki, was on Tuesday arraigned before the Upper Shari’a Court in Gusau on charges of inciting public disturbance and defamation of character against Governor Bello Matawalle. Counsel for Matawalle, Ibrahim Haruna, told the court that Danmaliki held a press conference last Saturday, where he castigated the governor and wanted to cause public disturbance, contrary to sections 287 and 142 of the Sharia Penal Code. Haruna told the court that text of the said press conference, which he said could cause public disturbance, was published by both convention and social media outlets. Danmaliki, who was a special adviser to former Zamfara State governor, Alhaji AbdulAziz Yari,, however, denied the allegations and told the court that his counsel, Umar Bello, would stand for him. Bello requested the copy of the court’s case but the governor’s counsel said it would be provided later when witnesses were invited to give evidence. This generated serious debate in the court as the defence counsel insisted that the allegations levelled against his client must be provided in writing. Another issue that generated intense argument was the matter of granting bail to the accused as requested by his lawyer. The defence counsel said, “The offences are bailable and I want the court to grant bail to my client. “Danmaliki is a popular person who could not jump bail. He did not need anybody to bail him based on his status.” But the governor’s lawyer stated that there was no compulsion for the court to grant him bail, according to the constitution, unless the reasons given by the defendant were accepted by the court. Justice Hadi Sani said the court had given more time for Matawalle’s lawyer to produce the witnesses and adjourned the case till December 12 for further hearing. The court had not granted bail to the accused at the time of filing this report and ordered that he should be remanded in prison. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 