Ebenezer Bajela FC ifeanyi Ubah players were on Friday attacked by suspected gunmen in Okene, Kogi State on their way to Kano for a Nigeria Professional Football League Matchday 6 encounter against Jigawa Golden Stars. The bus conveying the players was intercepted by men of the underworld dressed in National Youth Service Corp uniforms who opened fire on the spot. A few players were reportedly injured in the incident and are currently receiving treatment at a local hospital. Media officer of the club, Iyke Nwokedi, told Saturday Punch that the players are fine except for the driver who was hit by stray bullet. “Majority of the players are fine but some are in shock and one was injured on the head,” he said. “Majorly the one who was really affected was the driver of the bus who got hit from stray bullet but he’s been admitted at the hospital somewhere in Kogi state. That’s the situation and for security purpose, we won’t want to reveal some vital information of where the players are and the hospital where one of the officials is receiving treatment. “But the important thing is that we are fine and stabilising and also ensuring that the players come out of the shock and see if we will be able to play the game on Sunday. “We have contacted the LMC about the situation and we are waiting for their conclusion. “The gunmen were actually doning the NYSC regalia, someone came out like a corp member and we thought he was on a routine stop and check and the rest ran out and that was it. It was more like a deceit but they were marksmen who were in possession of what they should not bear and I think they were about five or six. I could not really ascertain due to the shock and everything happened so fast but I think I saw about five or six of them” This is the second time in five years that players of an NPFL side in transit for a game would be attacked. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com