Sunday Aborisade, Abuja President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has warned state lawmakers not to compromise their independence in their dealings with the executive arm of government. He, however, encouraged them to have a cordial working relationship with their governors. Lawan, according to a statement on Friday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ola Awoniyi, stated this when Speakers of state Houses of Assembly paid him a courtesy visit. He said, “If we have to take the lead in nation-building or in building our states, we have to also understand that we have to work together as cordially as possible. READ ALSO: Two killed, 17 vehicles burnt as fuel tanker explodes at Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway “We should work on a relationship that is based on mutual respect for the Executive and the Legislature whether at the national level or at the state level. “We should have a relationship that is characterised by consultations and partnerships. “Once we are able to establish that relationship either at the state or national level, we benefit immensely. “It does not help anyone when the relationship is largely characterized by rancour, animosity, suspicion and unwarranted fight between the two arms of government. “So without allowing yourselves to be subjugated, you still must ensure that you work together with the Executive arm of government in your states to produce legislations that will change the lives of the people,” Lawan said. Responding to a request for the Senate President intervention with regards to the financial autonomy of the state legislature, Lawan assured them that he will approach the matter, on their behalf, through the Governors Forum. He also called for a synergy between the National Assembly and state Houses of Assembly in the discharge of their statutory responsibilities to the people. He said the legislature at both the state and national levels should continue to exchange ideas on how to support each other. He said, “This kind of visit should be very frequent. We should have more and deeper frequent engagements between the National Assembly and the State Houses of Assembly. “We need to be talking. We need to be engaging ourselves because there are certain things that we have to do together especially the constitutional amendment. “The National Assembly takes the lead but the state Houses of Assembly will continue to have to play their roles as well. “So we should not wait to be thirsty before we dig a well. We should always be proactive,” Lawan said. He explained that certain legislations require some domestication or replication at the state level. Lawan said, “Even if we implement them at this (national) level and the states have not bought into it, it is going to have very limited success.” A spokesman for the delegation, Sheriff Oborevwori, who is the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, expressed concerns that the state Executive is yet to give effect to the issue of the financial autonomy of the state legislature. Oborevwori urged the Senate President to help them take the issue up with the President for possible issuance of an executive order.