Gibson Achonu, Owerri Military personnel from the 34 Artillery Brigade, Obinze, Imo State, have arrested one Obinna Ukah, 32, at Umuapu in the Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of the state for involvement in petroleum product theft. The soldiers handed the suspect over to the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps for further investigation. The suspect, who hails from Orodo in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of the state, was arrested around 3am while on his way from his community with over nine drums or 250 litres of suspected stolen Automated Gas Oil, also known as diesel. PUNCH Metro gathered that a Ford bus with number plate, Lagos AKD 45 XS, which was being used to convey the product, was also seized. READ ALSO: NWC begins reconciliation as Oshiomhole, Obaseki splits APC Parading the suspect on Thursday, the state Commandant of the NSCDC, Mr Raji Ibrahim, stated that dealing in petroleum products without a licence and adulteration of products were contrary to sections 17 (a) and 18 (b) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act. Ibrahim noted that the suspect used spare tyres and planks to conceal the stolen fuel in his bid to deceive security operatives at checkpoints. He said, “Ukah met his waterloo when the intelligent and dogged army operatives caught him during a stop and search operation and discovered that the bus was loaded with over 250 litres of AGO. “He offered them bribes of about N5,000 and the soldiers rejected it and arrested him along with the means of conveyance of the product. The soldiers called the NSCDC in the state for further investigation and necessary action due to the synergy existing among security agencies in state.” Ibrahim warned those involved in illegal oil bunkering to desist from it, adding that there was no hiding place for them in Imo State. Ukah told journalists that he bought the product in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, adding that that was his first involvement in the illicit business. He said, “Since I bought the product with my money, little did I know that I was doing an illegal business until I was caught and told so. There is a village in Port Harcourt called Iwofe, where you stay and wait for those, who convey petroleum products in canoes and boats. “It is a free market where the quantity you buy is determined by the amount you have in your pocket. I don’t know where they bring the products from. We stay there and pay as soon as the goods arrive.” He said there some persons’ duty was to stack the diesel in cellophane bags before being conveyed to the final destinations after the dealers must have bribed security operatives on the road. “The quantity you have in your vehicle determines how much you pay to the security agents as bribes. We give them between N2,000 and N5,000. We don’t usually have any problems on the way. However, the soldiers, who arrested me, refused to take a bribe from me”, he added. .Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 