The Centre for Democracy and Development on Saturday said political parties used fake news to delegitimise the Independent National Electoral Commission  and the electoral process during the Kogi governorship election. The Director, CDD, Ms Idayat Hassan, said this in a statement on the conduct of Saturday’s Kogi governorship election. Hassan said the CDD’s electoral environment observation report had previously predicted that political parties would use fake news during the election to cause confusion. She said, “Some of the fake news that circulated today included the disqualification of the PDP candidate, false results, fake images of thugs arrested and snatching of ballot papers. “CDD fact-checkers were able to debunk most of the fake news. “The hoaxes were mainly intended at delegitimising INEC and the process; again, Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp were the leading platforms used to spread disinformation.” Hassan said that earlier, voters across the 21 local government areas of Kogi went to the poll to elect a governor and in Kogi West, a rescheduled senatorial election also got underway following a court verdict. She said at the CDD Election Analysis Centre that reports had been coming from trained and accredited observers deployed across the 21 local government areas of the state. She said the preliminary statement was an overview of the initial findings on the conduct of the election, adding that the CDD observed the use of financial inducements to affect the outcome of the election. Hassan said the CDD also noted systematic and coordinated violent attacks at polling units and carting away of voting materials. She said in many polling units, observers and journalists were blocked from access and taking photographs in what appeared to be an attempt to prevent the gathering of evidence of electoral malpractices. She noted that the use of violence in the campaign and open threats of more violence in the election appeared to be a voter suppression strategy which played out on Saturday. She said CDD observers reported coordinated disruption of voting across many polling units with hired thugs invading polling units, shooting sporadically to scare away voters and in several cases carting away voting materials. “In polling unit 001 in Ward 4, Dekina Local Government Area, CDD observers reported sporadic gunfire; violence caused by rival party thugs who battled one another over control of the polling environment,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  