Afeez Hanafi Former workers with the Nigerian Ports Authority have decried the failure of the NPA management to pay their entitlements two months after the payment was approved by the Ministry of Transportation. The ex-workers popularly known as tally clerks and onboard security men said they were at loss over the non-payment of their severance package a year after the NPA verified their details. The officials, who were members of the Dockworkers’ branch of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, were relieved of their jobs following the concessioning of the ports early 2015. The representative of the group, Mr Kareem Onikede, said they were surprised that they had not got any payment two months after the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, announced the approval of the severance pay. Amaechi, while approving the payment in a letter dated September 5, 2019, directed NPA and the MWUN to work on effecting the payment. “Further to our letter dated August 8, 2019 on the above subject matter, I am to inform you that approval has been granted for the payment of severance benefits to the verified disengaged tally clerks and on-board security men as recommended, to maintain peaceful industrial harmony,” the letter signed on behalf of the ministry by the Deputy Director, Coastal and Ports Administration, Balarabe Wali, read in part. However, Onikede said about 1,650 workers were affected by the disengagement, noting that many of them could no longer settle their bills. He stated, “We have been holding protests since 2015 when we were disengaged. We took the NPA to the Industrial Court but at the end of the day they opted to settle out of court. They agreed to pay us severance package and we did verification in December 2018. They promised to pay us in the next two months. “Since then, we have not heard from them. We also wrote a petition to the Commissioner of Police, Apapa Command. Two months ago, the minister of transportation approved the payment. We don’t know what is causing the delay. We are 1,650 ex-workers from Lagos, Onne, Calabar and Port Harcourt ports. Some of our people are on sickbeds, some have been sent out of their houses while many cannot settle their medical bills.” Onikede also lamented that the NPA refused to disclose the amount they would receive to them. “We have been asking them but they are silent on it. We urge the Minister of Transportation to intervene to know what is causing the delay,” he added. A senior official of the NPA, who spoke to Sunday PUNCH on condition of anonymity because he was not allowed to speak with the press, promised to link our correspondent to the unit competent to comment on the issue. The official asked to be given more time when our correspondent contacted him on Friday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  