Sola Shittu, Benin The Vice-Chancellor of Samuel Adegboyega University, Ogwa in Edo State, Prof. Ben Aigbokhan,  has accused  the Academic Staff Union of Universities of blocking  private universities from receiving  funds for capital projects and research grants from the Tertiary Education Fund. Addressing the media    ahead of  the 5th convocation  of the university on Tuesday, Aigbokhan said ASUU opposed the bill submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Private Universities for TETFund to include private varsities in its programme. He said, “If you have intervention from TETFund to do capital projects, it will reduce your utilisation of your resources on such and can now be ploughed into research. We said they should extend the facility to private universities. “I am a member of the Committee of Vice Chancellors of Private Universities. In 2017, we proposed a bill to the National Assembly, it was taken to them last year, but unfortunately our colleagues in  public universities, particularly ASUU leadership, vehemently opposed it. Prominent people  in the  NUC (National Universities Commission)  have confirmed this to us. TETFund now said we could  access research grants, but you must be tagged to a research partner in a public university. That means a professor of my status, if I want to do  research, I will have to be attached to somebody from the public university before I can assess the  fund, whereas I want to use such research to develop my staff. “Everyone knows research is capital intensive and without sponsors, you can hardly make a headway, so we were  disappointed when ASUU opposed the bill.” The VC   said  eight students out of a total of 79 had graduated with a  first-class honours from the university this year. Aigbokhan said the institution over the years had zero tolerance for cultism and other social vices. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   