Sola Shittu, Benin Eight persons are  feared dead in the renewed war among three cults in Benin City, the Edo State capital. PUNCH Metro gathered that the clash between the Maphites, Black Axe (popularly called Aye) and Eiye confraternities; had been on for the past seven days. The killings started last Friday when a 200-level student of the University of Benin, Moses Adeshina, popularly called Aficionado, was shot dead at the Jeans Carnival organised by students of the Faculty of Social Sciences. This led to the suspension of all social activities in the school by the university management. Eyewitnesses told our correspondent that immediately after Adeshina was buried on Wednesday, two persons were attacked on the Wire and Siluko roads. While the victim of the Wire Road attack, identified as one Osasuyi, aka 190, allegedly died on the spot, the one on the Siluko Road, identified as Moses Oboh, was seriously injured. A day after Adeshina’s killing, one person was reportedly murdered around the Isior area of Benin and in the evening of the same day, another person was said to have been killed in the Osasogie area of Ugbowo. Another person was reportedly killed on Sunday night in the Adolor area of Ugbowo and another in Uwasota. Two persons were reportedly killed at the Gani Fawehinmi Layout, Isinoro, near New Benin. However, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Chidi Nwabuzor, said only two deaths were recorded, adding that one arrest had been made. READ ALSO: Suspected thief spends night inside Delta bank’s toilet Nwabuzor stated, “On the situation at the University of Benin, it was reported that one person was killed as a result of cult-related activities on Wednesday. The Oba Market Police Station reported the killing of another young man. The operatives went to the two places and evacuated the bodies. “On the Siluko Road incident, one person was arrested with evidence of being part of the fight; he had severe injuries on his two knees. His name is Moses Oboh, 20. This is the information available. “The Commissioner of Police, Edo State, Danmallam Muhammed, has actually sent out operatives and tactical teams to ensure that this menace is stopped; we hope that the general public will equally assist us by giving information on the activities of cultists.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 