Samson Folarin The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, has said military personnel need training to understand the best approach to resolving the various security challenges facing the country. Buratai, while soliciting support from security agencies, traditional rulers and communities, said the military could not do everything alone. He spoke on Tuesday while declaring open a conflict management seminar organised by the Nigerian Army College of Logistics, Lagos Island, Lagos State. The four-day seminar, themed, ‘Building Capacity for Effective Civil-Military Cooperation in Counter Insurgency Operations’ was held in conjunction with the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung and Impact for Change and Development. Buratai, who was represented at the event by the Army Chief of Logistics, Maj. Gen. JI Unuigbe, noted that the theme was appropriate as it suited the security challenges in the country and efforts to improve cooperation among security agencies. He said an understanding of the remote and immediate causes of the various conflicts in the country and their impacts on society were “precursors to resolving the problems and preventing future recurrence.” The army chief noted the country was confronted with security challenges, including the Boko Haram insurgency, militancy, kidnapping for ransom, cattle rustling, herdsmen and farmers’ crisis and armed robbery. The COAS said the crisis had led to killings, destruction of livelihoods, displacement and food shortage. He said the collaboration of the military with other agencies had facilitated intelligence sharing and joint operations that had recorded successes in operations such as EX AYAM, AKPATUMA, EX-SHARAN, DAJI and COIN. Buratai, however, said the constant drafting of the military in conflict situations demanded elaborate actions. He explained that such officers needed to be impacted with the rudiments of conflict management, including tools and techniques. “Furthermore, the deployment of the military in internal security operations has had a number of logistics challenges. In view of the dynamics of internal security operations in the country, military logistic imperatives for such operations need to be interrogated,” he said. The army chief insisted that conflict management techniques such as mediation and town hall meetings had assisted the military in managing crisis and preventing reprisals. Buratai said the army, while remaining non-partisan and neutral, was committed to upholding the tenets of democracy and complying with the rule of engagement and code of conduct.