Gibson Achonu, Owerri Soldiers of 34 Artillery Brigade, Obinze, Imo State, have arrested one Okechukwu Emmanuel (36), who was allegedly dealing in adulterated diesel. Southern City News gathered that the suspect, who hails from Urualla in Ideato North Local Government Area of Imo State, was arrested on November 8, 2019 around 2pm. Parading the suspect, the Imo State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Mr. Raji Ibrahim, stated that exhibits recovered from the suspects included five drums of illegally-bunkered Automated Gas Oil (diesel) and a Camry with number plate, AE-609-URU. Ibrahim also stated that the suspect was arrested by the troops of 34 Artillery Brigade at Umuapu, along Port-Harcourt-Owerri Expressway. He said the suspect was moving the illegal product through Umudioga Road, Elele, to Owerri in Imo State. “After the arrest, the suspect was handed over to the command for further investigation and necessary actions. This is an outcome of the synergy among the Army, civil defence and other security agencies in the state,” he added. He further said it was unlawful dealing in petroleum products, including sales and distribution, without license, adding that adulteration of petroleum products contradicted sections 17 (a) and 18 (b) of Miscellaneous Offences Act. While fielding questions from journalists, the suspect confessed to the crime, adding that he bought the fake product from Iwofe village in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. On the packaging in cellophane bags, he said there were those whose task was to stack the fake product in nylon bags. He said, “On the road from Port-Harcourt to Owerri, we meet security operatives at checkpoints. They don’t disturb me because I settle them depending on the quantity of ‘goods’ I have. There are operatives I give N3,000, other times I give them N4,000 or N5,000 as the case may be. Once I settle them, they give me the right of way. It was unfortunate that as I wanted to settle those who arrested me, they refused and brought me here.” The suspect said he went into the crime because of the unemployment problem in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 