Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government has given some categories of civil servants till November 30 to update their human resources records on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System platform or risk their salaries being stopped. Those affected by the directive are employees of non-core ministries, departments and agencies and newly-employed members of staff of core MDAs who were enrolled into IPPIS platform from January 1, 2017 till date. The acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, gave the directive in a circular dated October 29, 2019 and marked HCSF/CSO/HRM/M.1278/I/95. Yemi-Esan recalled that as part of activities towards the final roll-out of the HR Module of IPPIS, her office had earlier issued two circulars requesting all federal public servants on the platform to update their records via an online portal provided for that purpose. She said the exercise was rounded off and the portal was closed on May 23, 2018 to pave the way for the service-wide physical verification which was also completed for all core MDAs. She disclosed that the online portal had been reopened for the affected civil servants to update their records. While recalling that MDAs were also requested to submit their structures and other relevant documents for upload to enable their employees have access to the portal and update their records, Yemi-Esan said MDAs that had not complied with the directive and those that were enrolled after the closure of the portal had till November 6, 2019 to comply. She listed the required documents to include updated nominal roll, list of IPPIS role players in line with attached template and list of established cadres and positions/ranks. She said, “It should be noted that the portal will be opened for the affected officers from October 30, 2019 to November 30, 2019. “It is pertinent to emphasise that failure of any MDA and /or employee to comply with the content of this circular will lead to stoppage of the salary of the entire MDA and/or the affected employee on the IPPIS platform. “Please bring the content of this circular to the attention of all concerned for full compliance.” The circular was addressed to the Chief of Staff to the President; the Deputy Chief of Staff; Secretary to the Government of the Federation; all ministers and ministers of state; all permanent secretaries; all special advisers /senior special assistants and the National Security Adviser. Other recipients of the circular are the Chief of Defence Staff; service chiefs; the Inspector-General of Police; chairman of the Federal Civil Service Commission; chairman, Police Service Commission; Accountant-General of the Federation; Auditor-General of the Federation: Surveyor-General of the Federation; the Chief Registrar, Supreme Court of Nigeria and heads of other government agencies and parastatals among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 