Tony Okafor,  Awka The Anambra State Police Command, on Monday, rescued two children allegedly stolen by two women in the state. The children, who were allegedly stolen from Enugwu Aguleri in the Anambra East Local Government Area of the state, were rescued in Nkpor in the Idemili Local Government Area of the state. Handing over the children to their parents at the command’s headquarters in Amawbia on Monday, the police warned parents to be aware of the whereabouts of their children. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident. He said two women from Enugu and Imo states, who allegedly stole the children, had been arrested. The police spokesperson said the children had been reunited with their parents. He added, “Following intelligence report, police detectives in Anambra State arrested two female suspects at Nkpor in the Idemili North Local Government Area of the state. “Preliminary investigation by police detectives attached to the Otoucha Division revealed that the two children were stolen from Enugwu Aguleri in the Anambra East LGA by one Ani Chisom, 28, of Amuri in the Nkanu-East LGA of Enugu State, and Afamefuna Udodili, 32, of Orodo in the Mbaitolu LGA of Imo State. “Following the public announcement by the command, the parents of the two kids from Enugwu Aguleri came and identified their children. They also revealed their names as Confidence, 5, and seven-month-old Blessing. “The children have since been reunited with their parents and the case is under investigation after which the suspects will be charged. The PPRO added, “The Commissioner of Police, John Abang, urges parents and guardians to monitor their children and wards, and caution them against following strangers. “The CP further enjoins members of the public to report any suspicious person to the nearest police station or call the emergency police number.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 