’Femi Asu The Nigerian Gas Association has honoured a former Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Dr Jackson Gaius-Obaseki, and others who contributed significantly to its growth. The NGA, at the celebration of its 20th anniversary in Lagos, conferred a Lifetime Achievement Award on Dr Gaius-Obaseki, its founding president, for his remarkable role in driving and implementing the vision of the association. According to a statement, late Adeyemi Akinlawon received a posthumous award for his exemplary service in various capacities to the association. Other past presidents of the association honoured for excellence in leadership were Ibrahim Waziri, Egbert Imomoh, Andrew Jamieson, Emmanuel Olukoga, Chris Ogiemwonyi, Charles Osezua, Chima Ibeneche, Saidu Mohammed, Bolaji Osunsanya and Dada Thomas. According to the statement, Aka Nwokedi, Ayorinde Adedoyin, Chindinma Obi, Emeka Ene, Ike Oguine, Nath Oyatogun, Shaba Hassan and Yetunde Taiwo were recognised for exemplary stewardship to the association. The President, NGA, Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, said, “It has been 20 years of impactful advocacy. Not without its challenges, but we have so much to celebrate. Today, the NGA has a very diverse membership made up of over 127 corporate organisations; drawn from the upstream, midstream and the downstream sectors of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. “Today, the NGA has over 2,000 professional members that include robust student representation.” According to the statement, the association has over the years influenced several industry-changing gas policies, viable gas projects and transnational deals, thus reinforcing natural gas as one unique resource that Nigeria can leverage to create transformative change across various sectors and spheres of industry. “With over two decades of consistent and progressive advocacy drive, the NGA remains poised in its commitment to promoting natural gas as fuel of choice in the country,” it added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  