Nike Popoola Experts in the financial,  and Information and Communication Technology Sectors   have urged businesses in the country to embrace technological advancement, saying it is for economic and personal growth. The experts spoke during the annual lecture series organised by Alliance Law Firm in Lagos recently. During the event, Alliance Law Firm released an ‘Ease of business in Nigeria manual’ to guide businesses both local and international on how best to conduct business in Nigeria legally and ethically. Speaking at the event, the Chairman, Zinox Technologies Limited, Mr Leo Ekeh, highlighted the relevance of data in planning, saying lack of data could affect planning. According to him, the country is still grappling with challenges that needed to be addressed such as poor electricity supply, poor access to good water, and bad roads, among others. He said, “Data is the power and is important for planning. If you do not have data, how can you plan? This is the major problem of this country and it needs to be addressed.” Speaking on what prompted the firm to organise the event, the Managing Partner, Alliance Law Firm, Uche Obi, said technology was causing disruption in the financial sector in a good way and other sectors should follow suit in keeping up with the pace of technological advancement. He said, “The theme of the lecture is relevant, considering the disruptive and pivotal place of technology in Nigeria’s quest for economic advancement, nation building and positive image profiling. “We have produced the doing business in Nigeria manual; we had the first one done 10 years ago and we have updated this version, making it more user friendly. “It would help explain and understand things for startups, established businesses, both local and international. The firm did this whilst leveraging our vast experience.” The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said that leveraging technology for the growth of Nigeria was not only applicable to banks but also for all stakeholders in the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 