Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin A Kwara State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ilorin has remanded a cattle herder, Iliasu Abubakar, in the Federal Correctional Centre, Ilorin, after confessing to murdering his brother, Isah, in Gwanara, Baruten Local Government area of the state. Iliasu, who is standing trial for culpable homicide, allegedly killed his brother over allegation that the deceased was having an amorous affair with his wife. The offence, according to the police prosecutor, is contrary to Section 221 of the Penal Code Law. It was gathered that one Umaru Abubakar of Budo-Aiki, Fulani camp, via Gwanara, reported the incident at the community police post, from where it was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Ilorin, for discreet investigation. Umaru, who is the father of the two brothers, had gone to the camp of his sons but found no one around except for the cattle. When he searched the camp, Umaru found Isah’s corpse, with machete cuts on his neck, but his brother was nowhere to be found. It was learnt that discreet investigation into the incident revealed that Iliasu killed his brother and fled to Oyo State. After he was arrested, Iliasu reportedly confessed to the police that he dealt his brother machete blows for having an illicit affair with his wife. The deceased was said to have once confessed to his brother that he fathered the three-year-old child his wife was nursing. READ ALSO: Landlady weeps as tenant converts flats to hotel The suspect said he had warned the deceased on several occasions to stop the affair with his wife but he did not heed the warning, hence, Iliasu attacked him. The police prosecutor, Inspector Sanni Abdullah, prayed the court to remand Iliasu in a correctional centre. He said the offence could not be tried at the magistrates’ court hence the need to remand the suspect till the matter would be transferred to the appropriate court for hearing. The magistrate, Mrs Jumoke Bamigboye, conceded to the prayers of the prosecutor and ordered the remand of the accused person and adjourned the matter till November 26, 2019, for mention. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 