Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, on Monday, vowed to put an end to what he described as the “unhealthy dependence of regulators on operators” in the telecoms sector. The minister, who raised the alarm over alleged attempts by “corrupt” individuals to sabotage efforts being made by the ministry, also alleged that the operators “compromise” regulators in the sector. He vowed that the unhealthy relationship between the regulators and operators would no longer thrive under his leadership. Pantami spoke through a statement signed by his spokesperson, Uwa Suleiman. Stressing that he would not allow the exploitation of consumers, the minister insisted that regulators in the telecoms sector must be truly independent and objective. The statement said, “The hitherto existing relationship between regulators and operators, which more often than not compromises the former, is one that cannot thrive under the current leadership. “The minister is determined to ensure that the unhealthy dependence of regulators on operators is addressed so that regulators can be very objective. “No act of corruption or injustice shall be condoned. “We will neither be intimidated by fifth columnists and any agents of dubious intentions nor blackmailed into submission. “The minister considers it duty-bound to provide non-discriminatory policy directions for the benefit of every Nigerian, ensure that consumers are protected from exploitation, provide an enabling environment for investors and operators and enhance the independence of all regulatory parastatals under his purview.” Pantami, in the statement, explained that he wanted to notify the general public that he was not unaware of the “clandestine attempts by some unpatriotic elements at sabotaging the efforts being made by the ministry to deliver on its mandate to Nigerians.” The minister had, in recent times, issued a number of directives aimed at intervening on critical issues in the telecoms sector. These include ordering the blocking of unregistered SIM cards and directives to the Nigerian Communications Commission to compel the telcos to reduce the cost of data and stop illegal deductions from subscribers. The statement said the moves aimed at protecting the consumer, and entrenching discipline and professionalism in the sector had “obviously ruffled some feathers whose sole aim is to discredit Pantami’s mass-friendly policies.” According to the statement, investigations have revealed plans to launch a “malicious smear campaign” against Pantami by unscrupulous elements. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 