Patrick Odey, Uyo An Akwa Ibom high court in Uyo, the state capital, on Thursday, remanded a councillor representing Ward 6 in the Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area, Mr Uduak Etim, in prison custody for alleged kidnapping and assault of one Iniubong Essien. Etim is standing trial for allegedly kidnapping, torturing and stripping Essien naked sometime in November 2018. He accused the woman of stealing part of the money donated to him at his marriage reception. The lawmaker according to court evidence filed by the state’s Ministry of Justice, reportedly conspired with his wife, Mrs Aniedi Etim, and kidnapped the victim to his village, where she was beaten. During his arraignment, the defence counsel, Mr Mfon Ben, raised a preliminary objection to the jurisdiction of the court arguing that the Attorney General of Akwa Ibom State was biased against his client. According to the lawyer, the police only recommended that the accused person should be charged with assault and not kidnapping and attempted murder. The presiding judge, Justice Archibong Archibong, dismissed the objection as frivolous and lacking in merit. According to the judge, the allegation of bias against the attorney general was baseless. The judge also agreed with the prosecution counsel, Mr. Godwin Udom, that the attorney general was not subject to the dictates of the police. Justice Archibong then ordered the accused person to enter the dock and take his plea. The defence counsel also made another attempt to frustrate plea taking by the councillor on the grounds that he is a public officer. The judge rejected the application. After pleading not guilty to the charges, the councillor was remanded in prison custody pending ruling on his bail application on November 27, 2019. Meanwhile, the victim’s lawyer and human rights activist, Mr Inibehe Effiong, has filed a fundamental rights enforcement lawsuit against the councillor and his wife at the Akwa Ibom State High Court. Effiong is praying the court to award N100m as compensation to his client and to order the councillor and his wife to tender a public apology to his client in national newspapers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 