Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has asked airlines and pilots to observe weather conditions before taking off as the harmattan season sets in. The regulatory agency said on Tuesday that all stakeholders must work together to ensure safe flight operations in Nigeria’s airspace by adopting safety approach. The General Manager, Public Relations of the NCAA, Mr Sam Adurogboye, said an advisory circular intended to alert pilots to the hazards associated with dust haze from now to March 2020 had been sent out. He said the warning came as a result of the forecast issued by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency in its Seasonal Rainfall Prediction Bulletin of 2019, stating that the cessation of the rainy season had been predicted from mid-October in the northern part to early December, 2019 in the southern part. He said with the issuance of the circular, pilots and operators were to note hazards and operational problems such as reduced air-to-ground visibility and aerodrome visibility, which might fall below the prescribed operating minima or in severe conditions blot out runways, markers and airfield lightings over wide areas. “Flights are bound to be delayed, diverted or cancelled where terminal visibility falls below the prescribed aerodrome operating minima,” he said. According to him, pilots are expected to exercise maximum restraint when severe weather condition is observed or forecast by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, flight crews, operators and air traffic controllers should ensure adherence to aerodrome weather minima. He also stated that all pilots must obtain adequate departure, en-route, destination and alternate aerodromes weather information and briefing from the aerodrome meteorological office prior to flight operations. “Operators should ensure that necessary measures are put in place to cushion the effects of flight delays or cancellations on their passengers,” Adurogboye said. He stated that the NCAA had put measures in place to ensure strict compliance from all stakeholders. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 