Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Residents of Citiview Estate in the Warewa area of Ogun State have protested against the refusal of the developer, Propertymart Real Estate Investment Limited, to address the problems in the estate and give some of them title documents to their dwelling units. The residents said the developer had refused to fix the damaged infrastructure in the estate despite several letters notifying it of the condition of the estate. The homeowners, under the aegis of the Citiview Residents’ Association, during a peaceful protest at the developer’s office in the Magodo Phase II area of Lagos, on Thursday, noted that flood had damaged the entrance to the estate, making it extremely difficult for them to drive in and out. According to the residents, it would have been impossible to access the estate if not for their efforts to raise funds to purchase granite and boulders to fill the widening pothole in which a pool of water had formed and was blocking the entrance. They also complained of other life-threatening problems, including floodwater mixed with human waste, which had contaminated the water in the estate; poor drainage system, defective buildings and infrastructure, adding that many of the residents had yet to get the title documents on their property. The Vice-Chairman of the association, Aderemi Lateef, who spoke on behalf of the residents, noted that they decided to embark on the peaceful protest after previous deliberations with the developer failed to yield the desired results. He said, “The issues we are facing are multifarious; promises are not fulfilled, we have failed infrastructure, flooding of the estate, poor sewage design and implementation, lack of perimeter fencing, poor electrical infrastructure that keep failing and poor project execution. “The road that leads to the estate has failed; over 70 per cent of the residents have moved out of the estate and families are being separated; we kill dangerous animals on the estate on a daily basis and the developer is not responsive; we have held several meetings with the officials with no result to show for it and we have written so many letters without any result. “While we were coming out of the estate this morning (Thursday), the group managing director of the firm came to the estate to block us with the intention of preventing us from coming here, but we told him that we had the mandate of our people that we should deliver the letter in his office and we could not change that and we left him there.” The residents, who held a meeting with the management of the firm after the protest, accused it of intimidating them with the Department of State Services’ operatives. “When we got to the office to deliver our letter to the management, we were told that there was a third party, who was not there when we purchased the property, and the person representing the third party said he was representing the DSS; we do not know the business of the DSS in the meeting; so, we had to abort it,” Lateef added. However, the solicitor to the firm, Taiwo Adedeji, said Propertymart was working on the demands of the protesters, adding that the firm did not invite the DSS to intimidate the residents. He stated, “We had met before now but sometimes, developments necessitate the need to meet again. The protesters are our customers, whom we have engaged as stakeholders in the system and their grievances are issues that we did not just start to address. “Some of their grievances are due to natural occurrences like the flood and this is the first time it will be happening in this dimension; even when other estates around were been submerged by flood, our estate was not that vulnerable because of the infrastructure that the company put in place. “Most of the residents have received their title documents and this is not something that starts and ends on our table; it is also tied to the activities of the government; but the larger percentage of the residents has title documents, especially those who have completed their payment. “We cannot hold on to their title documents and for those who have not collected theirs, we are engaging the government to make sure that the documents come out. We are going to address all the demands of the residents, because they are our stakeholders.” Speaking on the DSS involvement, Adedeji said the operatives did not come on the firm’s request, but that they were invited by concerned residents of Magodo Phase II, who saw the protesters with placards. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  