Kamarudeen Ogundele Abuja The All Progressives Congress in the South-South met in Abuja on Thursday night and passed a vote of confidence in the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. A committee was set up to look into the crisis rocking the Edo and Cross River state chapter of the party. The meeting presided over by the National Vice Chairman of APC in South-South, Hillard Eta, had in attendance elders and leaders of the party in the region. Notable among party leaders absent were Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki; the Minister of Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio and the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. At the opening, some party chieftains expressed worry about the attitude of some members in the region working against the national chairman. Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, expressed concern over the orchestrated plot to remove Oshiomhole as national chairman and appealed for support for the former Edo State governor whom he described as “our own that must not be antagonised.” He said, “This meeting holds a lot of significance considering the crisis that has bedevilled the zone. It has been bittersweet. There has been an  attempt  to remove the national chairman – the key position  given to the South-South. Why are we antagonising our own? We have to stand by him. The party in the zone hasn’t fared very well. It is important to close ranks.” He appealed to aggrieved members to sheathe their swords and work together. He said further, “In Edo and Rivers state, we must find a solution to the problem. I want to beg all warring parties to sheathe their swords.” Oshiomhole expressed delight over the large turnout of members despite the cynicism that trailed the open invitations to all members of the South-South caucus. He acknowledged the raging crisis in his home state of Edo State but said he was determined to make a concession for genuine reconciliation. “We are grateful for coming this far, we won Kogi, we won Bayelsa. Edo election is next year, about some months away. You see, there is bound to be internal wrangling and issues. We must make extra efforts so that wherever there is disagreement, there must be reconciliation. “There were so many cases in court after the election but we haven’t had any upturn by the courts from our governors. Regardless of what some persons have said, here we are with a large turnout of members of the caucus.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com