Friday Olokor, Abuja About twelve days after her death, Eikojonwa Tavershima, daughter of the late Mrs. Salome Abuh, on Friday, painted a gory scenario of how her mother was roasted by suspected political thugs in the Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State. Saturday PUNCH reports that the house of the Peoples Democratic Party women Leader was reportedly set ablaze few hours after Governor Yahaya Bello was declared winner of the November 16 governorship election. Her distraught daughter and first child said that though she was not with her when the killing was perpetrated, “only her ashes and burnt skull were found.” She spoke during an interview with journalists in Abuja when the Convener of ‘Womanifesto’ and Executive Director of Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre, Dr. Abiola Akiyode – Afolabi, led some Nigerian women to protest against the violence against women, including the post-election violence in Kogi State. During the protest, Akiyode-Afolabi challenged the Federal Governmrnt to “declare state of emergency on violence against women in Nigeria.” The activist who spoke before the Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, explained that their mission was to present the recommendations arising from the three-day deliberations on women issues in the country and seek justice for the killing of Abuh. She said, “For the past three days, we gathered at the National Centre for women Development to deliberate on the issue of women. For those three days, women from all walks of life looked at five issues; violence against women, women political participation, women peace and security, sexual and reproductive right as well as women and poverty.’’ Tavershima asked women not to be deterred in participating in politics despite the ugly incident which befell her mother. She said, “I really sincerely from the depth of our heart appreciate what the women are doing. A lot of them have not met my mother physically. But I see the passion from the way they are all out here crying out for ‘Justice for Salome.’ “Indeed she is my mother and she deserves this. The way she died was uncalled for and I pray that justice be given to this women for the sake of late Salome “We were not there (when she was killed). She was in our family house in the village. But all I was told was that the family house was set on fire and when we asked about her, they said nobody can tell. They only found a burnt skull with ashes there. “My mum was full of life and agile. She could be physically a woman but she was 10 men in a woman. She was a hospitable woman and lively. She was a mobiliser. She was a women leader for the PDP and she stood for PDP all the while. President Muhammadu Buhari, please arise for us. Don’t be comfortable on your seat. Let there be justice for Salome Abuh and the entire Abuh family. Addressing the protesters, Tallen said the President was worried over the violence that trailed the Kogi governorship poll, leading to Abuh’s death. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 