Punch Editorial Board There are strong indications that Nigeria’s closed land borders will be reopened early next year if her neighbours comply with five conditions presented before them. The affected countries have been frenetic since the borders were barricaded in August, just as there are local pressures on the Federal Government to end its action, triggered by unrelenting smuggling activities, which have damaged the country’s economy. In line with the redemptive plan, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, unfurled recently, a tripartite committee, comprising Benin Republic, Niger and Nigeria has been formed to oversee its successful implementation, met last week in Abuja. The three countries agreed to establish a joint border patrol team that would involve the police, customs, immigration and other security agencies. Under the new regime of measures that will determine the reopening of the borders on January 31, 2020, Nigeria will not accept imported goods repackaged by her neighbours. This means that the “rules of origin” embodied in the Economic Community of West African States on movement of goods and services should be adhered to. Other imperatives include, recognised proper transport of goods into Nigeria; dismantling of all the warehouses on the common borders; aliens should travel with passports and goods imported from ECOWAS member-states, should have 30 per cent local content in line with value-addition requirements as contained in the Trade Liberalisation Scheme of the regional body. Customs, finance, interior, trade and the intelligence agencies of these countries hold the key to the success of the envisaged new order. There should be no leakages, given the economic haemorrhage the country has suffered over the years. Smuggling of rice, textiles, poultry products, automobiles and illegal firearms and ammunition across Benin Republic, Niger, Chad and Cameroon has turned the country into a dumping ground; and taken insecurity to alarming level. Latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics show that petrol and diesel imports dropped by 15 per cent in September just as Nigeria collected a record N9.2 billion import duties in one day, in the same month. Interestingly, cargoes that used to berth in Benin Republic before being smuggled into Nigeria are now compelled to use Apapa or Tin Can ports. From the 644,131 metric tons of rice the country formerly imported from Thailand annually, it went down to 20,000 MT by 2018, with domestic rice production aggressively ramped up with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers Programme to boost farming. Sustaining the revival of this subsector of the economy is being threatened by Benin Republic’s import of 1.2 metric tons of rice annually. It is an indefensible import record with its 11million population. It is common knowledge that the bulk of the imports is destined for Nigeria. Smuggling petrol from Nigeria into these countries creates artificial scarcity and illegal price increases locally. This informed the decision of the Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali, on November 6, to stop the supply of the product to stations within 20 kilometres of all land borders. Oil workers’ unions have supported government’s action. These border petrol outlets serve as conduits for smuggling, claims the General Secretary, Nigerian Union of Petroleum and National Gas Workers, Afolabi Olawale. According to him, there are more petrol stations within 20 kilometres radius of the country’s borders than the number inside the cities. Border communities at Idi-Iroko, Imeko-Afon in Ogun State and others in Katsina, Adamawa and Sokoto states are undoubtedly seriously being affected. The policy provoked a raucous debate last Tuesday in the House of Representatives, which wants the decision reversed. Certainly, prolonged border closure will seriously hurt the economies of all the stakeholders. It is in the interest of Nigeria and her neighbours to resolve this border logjam as the economies at both ends are hurt. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association was, therefore, spot on when it observed that legitimate local businesses are also in jeopardy. Being in abeyance for four months is indeed causing a huge damage. Nigeria should come to terms with the reality that border closure cannot be a permanent solution to smuggling. Therefore, her porous 84 land borders and the over 1,400 illegal routes have to be brought under firm control, leveraging the efficiencies high-tech can offer. The Nigeria Customs Service should end its penchant for Stone Age operations at both seaports and land borders by deploying scanners massively in clearing goods. Far-reaching reforms at both levels are critical for effective and anti-smuggling operation. As a result, the Africa Finance Corporation’s plans to invest $450 million for the automation of customs operations should be seized with both hands. The Managing Director, Bionics Technologies West Africa, Umar Kuta, who disclosed this to the House of Representatives joint Committees on Finance, Customs and Excise; and Public Petitions, said that it had five technical partners for the projects, which include Huawei Technology and Nuctech of China. “A complete automation of the activities of the NCS within 12 months will boost revenue and eliminate all forms of sharp practices in the system,” says Kuta. Human interface promotes corruption and it will not take Nigeria far if this analogue template continues to define customs operations. Ali should face squarely the issue of corruption among his officers: fish them out and, through the process of the law, send them to jail to serve as a deterrent to others.  The ports in the digital age should be made to function as such: scanners, cameras and sensors have revolutionised operations globally. At Rotterdam Port, goods are cleared electronically, while Caofeidian Port, 200 kilometres east of Beijing, China, a central remote-control room is expected to carry all operations by the end of 2019. Apparently, with Ghana which does not share land border with Nigeria being scourged by the border closure, it situates the crisis within the purview of ECOWAS. The regional body will lose its essence if its member-states cannot operate within the ambit of the law that binds them together. It should, therefore, ensure that its members act responsibly in deference to the ECOWAS protocol to avoid a repeat of this impasse that vitiates its existence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   