Okechukwu Nnodim and Daud Olatunji Julius Berger Plc will resume work on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway at the end of the rainy season. The Federal Controller of Works, Ogun State, Olukayode Popoola, disclosed this in an interview with one of our correspondents on Saturday. The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, and his Lagos State counterpart, had a few months ago submitted a proposal for a takeover of the road, whose contract was awarded in 2001. READ ALSO: Niger man kills creditor during fight over debt Abiodun during his investiture as a patron of the Abeokuta Club on September 7, had said that Lagos and Ogun states had agreed to commercialise the road by allowing private investors to fund and toll the roads to ease traffic from Lagos to Abeokuta. The two governors had also submitted a proposal to that effect to President Muhammadu  Buhari. Almost two months after the proposal was submitted, the Federal Government had yet to make its stand known. But Popoola, in the interview with The PUNCH, said, “For that road, the contractor will soon move to site. The ministry is making effort to ensure that they (the contractor) move back to site. Now that the rainy season is gradually coming to an end, Julius Berger will soon move back to site.” Another official at the Abuja headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing confirmed that the government had received the request of both states on the Lagos-Abeokuta road. The official, who spoke in confidence, said, “It was submitted to the minister’s office and I’m sure they are working on it but it takes time. “I also read it in the newspaper and I’m sure it was submitted to the minister’s office. So they are working on it.” When probed further to explain why the approval from the Federal Government was being delayed, the source replied, “I’m sure you know that it is the minister that will direct me and not the other way round. “So when the time comes, the matter will be adequately addressed because I’m sure they are working on it since it is with the minister.” Residents of towns along the Abeokuta-Sango-Lagos road on Saturday lamented that the road had become a death trap. An indigene of Itori, Bakare Fatima, told one of our correspondents, “The bad road is seriously posing a threat to our lives in this community because the water channel from the highway is being diverted to our homes.” A commercial driver, Babatunde Onibuore, said, “We know the road is dreadful but it is one of the roads we must pass through while travelling to Lagos from Abeokuta. The accidents we record on this road are many. We repair our vehicles every day.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 