Nike Popoola Ecobank Nigeria has said it is partnering the All Africa Music Awards 2019 for the 6th edition of the programme in Lagos, as part of its initiatives to boost the creative sector. The bank, in a statement, described AFRIMA as an annual celebration of African talents from all regions of the continent. The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said it was one of the several initiatives by the bank to boost tourism, culture and the entertainment industry in Africa. He said it was also in line with Central Bank of Nigeria’s initiative for banks to support the growth of the creative industry in the country. Akinwuntan said Ecobankmobile *326# was pleased to support the growth of the creative and music industry, which he described as a key driver of Africa’s history, rich culture and youth engagement and empowerment. He said, “As a pan-African bank, Ecobank is proud to partner with Africa’s most renowned music awards, which is a symbol of our support to building the family and lifestyle of Africans. Ecobankmobile *326# is joining AFRIMA to ensure that the Lagos show is a success.” Akinwuntan said Ecobankmobile *326#, Ecobankpay, Ecobankmobile App, Ecobankxpress Account would bring easy, affordable and convenient financial services to the youth, entrepreneurs and businesses expected at the event. He said, “Our products interact with the lifestyle of Africans.  Ecobankmobile *326# makes it easy to open an instant account, make transfers, pay bills and buy airtime. Our integrated Ecobankmobile App works seamlessly across all 33 countries where Ecobank operates in Africa; also, the EcobankPay offers customers a multi-channel payment experience that includes Mobile QR payment at merchant stores. “The channel has a distinct advantage of supporting the three main payment schemes, Masterpass, mVisa and mCash, thereby broadening acceptability regardless of which bank a client makes payment from. Merchant QR is set up via Facebook Messenger as well as USSD payment for feature phone users.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 