Sunday Aborisade and Leke Baiyewu The House of Representatives on Tuesday described the Nigeria Customs Service suspension of the sale of fuel to areas within 20 kilometres to the country’s land borders as draconian. The House, therefore at its plenary on Tuesday, called on the NSC to review the order, which had subjected residents of border communities to untold hardship. The lawmakers also mandated  committees on interior, customs and excise, as well as  Petroleum Resources (Downstream) to “engage the Minister of Interior (Rauf Aregbesola), the Minister of State for Petroleum (Timipre Sylva), the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service (Hameed Ali) and the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (Melee Kyari) with a view to reviewing the situation and ameliorating the suffering of Nigerians living in the border towns.” The PUNCH had exclusively reported on Tuesday that residents of border communities in Ogun, Lagos, Adamawa, Katsina and Sokoto states were groaning following the suspension of fuel supply to areas, with petrol selling for N600 per litre or more. According to the report, the Federal Government’s task force had shut filling stations at border communities, leading to fuel scarcity in the areas. Residents of some of the communities also accused the task force of brutalizing them. The House, which condemned the government’s action, asked its committees to give a report of their talks with the ministers and the customs’ boss. The resolutions were passed following the adoption of a motion titled, ‘Urgent need for a review of the directive of the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service on the suspension of petroleum products supply to filling stations within 20 kilometres to the nation’s borders.’ On Thursday, the Customs boss had directed that no petroleum products should be supplied to  any filling station within 20 kilometres to the borders. A member of the House, Mr Sada Soli, moved a motion of urgent national importance at the plenary on Tuesday, asking that the order by the NCS boss be vacated. He noted that there were over 2000 border communities in 105 local government areas in 21 states of the federation that share  borders with  the Niger Republic, Chad Republic, Benin Republic and Cameroon.  A gallon of petrol is N1,200 “In the next 30 to 35 days,  we will be approaching Christmas. Consider the relevance of petroleum products to these communities,  how will they survive during the period? It will be difficult. Today in my town, a border town, a gallon of petrol is N1,200,” Soli, who is representing Jibia/Kaita Federal Constituency of Katsina State, said. Soli argued that the filling stations that were ordered not to sell petroleum products close to the borders were constructed in compliance with relevant laws. Soli said the House was alarmed that the directive was “tantamount to the NCS exercising powers that violate the provisions of the Customs and Excise Act (as amended).” The lawmaker further said, “The House is also alarmed that the directive will no doubt increase the suffering of Nigerians living in the border areas who are already feeling the impact of the border closure more than the rest of the country. “No alternative provision has been made to cater for the needs of the border communities, knowing full well how dependent the Nigerian economy is on petroleum products. The Department of Petroleum Resources, whose statutory duty it is to close petrol stations and regulate supply, has yet to make any clarification on the issue. “The House is worried about the inadequate public enlightenment on such a far-reaching sudden directive of an agency of government that will inflict untold hardship on the people. It is further worried about the loss of lives, jobs, transport challenges and general inconveniences that will arise as a result of such directive, which will affect hospitals, businesses and livelihoods of Nigerians as the poor power supply is well known, hence the reliance on petroleum products.” Several lawmakers who seconded the motion, criticised the policy while lamenting the hardships being faced by people living in the border communities. Another lawmaker, Mr Abdullahi Abdulkadir, described the action by the NCS as unilateral. He said, “This is a very draconian measure taken by the Nigeria Customs because in matters like this, we have a lot of stakeholders that need to be taken into consideration before arriving at such a very far-reaching decision. Now, many Nigerians are suffering because of this decision and it is very absurd for an agency of government to add more difficulties for Nigerians. “Already, the borders have been closed and we were still trying to control that situation by being patriotic enough to make people realise that at some points in our national life, we need to protect the economy and our resources, and support the government. Little did we know that some other difficult and draconian means would follow.” The lawmaker representing Daura/Mai’adua/Sandamu Federal Constituency in Katsina State, where President Muhammadu Buhari hails from, Mr Muhammed Fatuhu, lamented that the people in his constituency were suffering and the NSC should be sensitive to their plight and reverse the policy.  Senate debates ban today Meanwhile, the Senate will today, (Wednesday), debate  the ban of the sale of petroleum products near the nation’s borders. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan,  stated this at plenary on Tuesday  while ruling on the point of order raised by Senator Tolu Odebiyi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   