Enyioha Opara, Minna Barely weeks after former governor Babangida Aliyu alleged that Islamic Development Bank had released a $181m loan to the All Progressives Congress-led administration to fix Minna-Bida Road, Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State has invited the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to determine if the money has been released or not. Bello insisted that it is only the EFCC that can come in to clear the air about the issue. He made this known at the official flag-off of the 2019 Local Government Area election campaign in Minna, declaring that the loan had not entered into the coffers of the government. Aliyu had accused the government of not utilizing the $181 million IDB loan which had entered into the government’s account after he had left the office. The former governor stated that the loan was meant for the dualization of the Minna-Bida Road and wondered why the government did not utilise the money for the purpose it was meant for urging the people to demand that the government give an account of the money and the purpose it was expended on. READ ALSO: Minna-Bida Road: How did you spend $181m loan? Ex-gov Aliyu asks Niger APC “I went to Jeddah in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to seek an interest-free loan to dualise the Minna-Bida Road, but by the time the money came I had  left the office.” In reaction, Bello said, “Based on the allegation on the loan meant for fixing Bida- Minna Road, we did not meet any money in government account when we came into office neither has there been any money of such received by the government. “For this, we are inviting the EFCC to come and probe this government and the other government to see who is lying between us. But I still say that we did not meet anything in the account. EFCC should come and find out if the money has been released from that time till now. “The National and State Assembly has approved it but we are yet to receive it. The money has not been released but if Aliyu said it has been released, EFCC should come and investigate who has taken the money.”