Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri The Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Imo State Police Command has arrested one Emmanuel Obioma for defrauding his United States-based mistress, Ugo Emake, of N821,000. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Orlando Ikeokwu, told journalists that the suspect also faked his own kidnap and demanded N1m ransom from his mistress. Also arrested were Obioma’s accomplices, Iheanacho Ugochi and Agbo Samuel. Ikeokwu said a laptop, eight SIM cards, a Lexus 330 SUV and a mobile phone were recovered from the suspects as exhibits. He said the SARS Commander, Godfrey Victor, headed the team that arrested the suspects. Ikeokwu stated, “On November 2, 2019, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, acting on a credible intelligence, arrested these suspects for fraud and fake kidnapping. [READ ALSO] Border closure: Benin, Niger haven’t met our conditions – FG “Emmanuel initiated a relationship with one Ugo Emake, a female, who lives in the United States of America. He claimed that he lives in US as well. But he installed software, which ensured that a foreign number appears on the lady’s phone each time he calls. “Having succeeded in making her believe that he lives in the US, he then informed her that he was travelling to Nigeria. Upon his fake arrival in Nigeria, he claimed that he had an accident and that two people lost their lives in the process. “He, therefore, demanded a financial assistance for his treatment as a result of which she sent him the sum of N821,000 in two instalments. “Furthermore, on October 17, he raised a false alarm of being kidnapped while returning to Owerri from Kogi State. He demanded N1m from his mistress, which he said was the ransom amount. “Investigation was launched and he and his accomplices were arrested by SARS.” READ ALSO: Man fakes own kidnap, defrauds US-based mistress of N821,000 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 