Anna Okon The just-concluded Lagos International Trade Fair took a hit from the over one-month closure of borders between Nigeria and her neighbours. The exercise, which restricts movement of people and goods from other African countries, prevented small business operators from bringing their goods to the fair. The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Muda Yusuf, who spoke to our correspondent, said some African business owners were able to make it to the fair, but added that the turnout would have been more if the borders were open. He said, “Small business owners make up a bulk of the trading population we have in Africa. “If the borders were open, more of the small business owners would have been able to bring their goods across the border.” The chamber, in a bid to encourage intra-African presence at the fair, had dedicated a pavilion, the African Hall, to traders from other African countries who desired to exhibit at the fair. When our correspondent visited the pavilion last Sunday, however, it was observed that goods from Ghana dominated it. The traders were also accommodated under the umbrella of the Ghana Trading Company. A dealer in lubricants and household goods told our correspondent that the patronage was not encouraging. He said despite closing the borders to vegetable oil, people did not rush to his tent to buy his products. Another dealer in automobiles, Dayo Olofisan, said the turnout was not as positive as the previous years. He said people were not buying the vehicles he brought. He said the situation did not encourage further exhibition at the trade fair. A dealer in tyres, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sales were not encouraging, explaining that even though the borders had been closed, there was not much money in circulation and purchasing power was low. A dealer in male shoes, Murphy Ifego, also said sales were not as good as last year. He said he exhibited ladies’ shoes last year and had very goods sales. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com  