The All Progressives Congress member representing Niger East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Sani Musa, in this interview with SUNDAY ABORISADE,  speaks on why he is sponsoring social media bill and the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress What is your reaction to the public outcry that greeted your “Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulation Bill 2019,” popularly known as  Social Media Bill,  which scaled first reading last week? The outcry is expected and it is a welcome development. This is the reason we presented the bill because there must be engagement. One thing I keep saying about the bill is that we need the legislation. Even you, as a journalist need it more because this is your profession. You don’t have any other thing doing. You want at any time to see whatever you present to be authentic. I am sure you do your underground checks on your news items before going to the Press. You learn while you were in school, what ethical conduct should be in journalism. Nowadays, there is Internet. People,  these days, go online, search information on Google about whatever they want freely and take it as authentic. That’s why we must ensure that what goes into the Internet are facts. But members of the public, especially the media you said the bill would protect believe that your bill is a smart way to gag the press. Nobody is being gagged by this bill and nobody is being refused any opportunity to do his or her legitimate duty. I use the Internet more than any other person. Part of the things that spoilt my eyes happened during my incarceration by the Department of State Services. Also, when I was released,  I was always on the Internet because I was busy trying to see how I could read things. If you ask anyone that knows me very well, they will tell you that I spend 18 hours every day either on my iPad or laptop. I’m always on the Internet and on the social media.  It is not as if we are trying to come up with a bill or a legislation that would infringe on the right of the people.  The constitution has given Nigerians, fundamental human rights. There is constitutional freedom of speech and participation. My bill will guide against falsification of information. Some people would know full well that certain information is false and would still post it on the Internet. Why are you saying the bill will benefit the media or the journalists more? We are all victims of these things. Sometime ago, I saw PUNCH on the Internet and I thought it was the real Punch Online.  I saw the type of news that was coming out of it.  I am sure if I ask the PUNCH management,  they will say they don’t know anything about the website. You (Punch Online) cannot do  what the other Punch website is doing because the real Punch Online  would want to stand on their integrity; whenever they call you to come and defend what you have written,  you would want to say,  yes, we did it. If anybody is having a contrary view,  you have your facts right. We want to guide against all these things, that is why we say,  if by the time we put penalty on these things,  there would be sanity. Offenders would be taken to court. The court could decide to free the person if he or she was not found guilty. On the other way round,  the court could find the  offender guilty of using an untrue information on the Internet and impose punishment. But we have laws that have taken care of these things in our jurisprudence. ….. I know certain aspects of our jurisprudence that have taken care of issues that border on defamation and other things. This bill is entirely different from that. I have said it repeatedly that sending a message online is like switching on your light and you will see the speed at which it will go. Before you know it, the reading public is deceived. That is what we said we should just guide against. Unknown to a lot of journalists, my bill is coming to protect their profession. That is how it is being done in other parts of the world including the United States of America. Information dissemination is tele-guided. I challenge whoever that says that the social media is not regulated in the United States, because I can produce some legislation from some states to show how they are guided. It is the same thing in Canada. Talking about the fundamental human rights and freedom,  you cannot challenge freedom of speech in the two countries but they tend to guide these things. Malaysia too is regulating social media usage,  Singapore is doing it,  China has done it. Even Cote d’Ivoire, our next door neighbour, Senegal,  Egypt,  Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates are all doing the same thing. Go to Kuwait, and type, “fuck you,” the message would not go. Put any form of pornography,  it won’t send. Take a picture of a nude person and try to throw it into the Internet in all the countries that I have mentioned and you would see that they would not go. How does that now affect the corporate organisations which are in the business of journalism? Corporate bodies cannot be free if they are found guilty of an offence. Penalties range from  light punishment of N5, 000 fine while N300,000 is the maximum. If a senator decided to post something on his social media account knowing such information to be untrue and somebody challenged him and he is found guilty, he would be charged N300, 000. It is still in order. If I see a young man on the street,  committing similar offence and the court found him guilty and he was asked to go and pay N10 , 000 or N5, 000, by the time he sweat before he was able to pay,  he would not do it again and it would be a deterrent to others How will you defend allegations that the government of the day is using you, through this bill, to protect top government functionaries? There is nothing in my bill to show that government or anybody is trying to protect anyone in power. I am also not doing it to protect myself as a legislator,  rather,  I am trying to protect Nigerians from the misuse. Some civil society groups allege that the social media exposed you as a contractor with the Independent National Electoral Commission, while standing election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in the last election, hence you are fighting back with this bill… Prior to the 2015 general elections,  I was an active participant on Facebook. I freely used my Facebook page when Femi Fani-Kayode wrote a petition against me to the National Security Adviser, knowing full well that the Federal Government had given me a project then. My company was executing a project for the Federal Government. We didn’t default in that project,  neither did we do anything wrong. The client that gave us the project did not complain that we were not doing what we were supposed to do. However,  when someone wanted us to compromise a whole process of the Nigerian election and we refused,  they went to the Internet,  captured things that I had over the years, and posted them. Another example is that of the President. He contested election from 2003 up to when he became the President. Some people came up with his pictures of 2003, holding meetings at Oriental hotels in Lagos where he was given N2bn. All these information were posted then on the Internet,  knowing full well that it was not true. People were re-circulating the entirely false information. If it happens in a country that has this type of law in place, that type of message will not go out. Also in 2015, I was incarcerated and it was the same social media that were talking about it. Some were saying the truth,  the others were saying falsehood. In 2019,  somebody said I had been bribed and given a slot to contest election into the Senate, knowing full well that I worked so hard to win my election after rigorous campaigns, even when the APC refused to give me the ticket which I duly won. That is part of the reason I’m saying that (Adams)  Oshiomhole must go ! I’m a freedom fighter,  I want to see every right being protected. I cannot then be a party to a situation that would  subjugate some people and deny them their rights. How do you want the public to believe you when another bill seeking the establishment of the Hate Speech Commission surfaced,  a week after you initiated your own? My bill is different from the Hate Speech Bill. As far as I know,  we have a legislation that can tackle hate speech. Also, my bill can also tackle hate speech because if you know that you are going to say something that is not true, you will think of the consequences. There is a difference between my bill and the hate speech bill. I may come out to say something that is against your tradition it is left for you to prove that the statement has made people to look down on you at the court of law.  The aim and objective of my bill is to prevent the transmission of false statement, or a declaration of facts,  knowing full well that those facts are not true in Nigeria, to enable measures to be taken to counter the efforts of such transmission also to suppress the financing, promotion and other support of online locations that repeatedly transmit false statement. That also protects your business. If I post something and I wrote PUNCH,  I will still go on line. You cannot come and claim that it is yours. The reading public will not know that I have put a slash to show that it is not the real PUNCH. Now, with my bill, PUNCH can take such person who was imitating its publication to court. How will you convince Nigerians that your bill, that of the Hate Speech and others are not being used to suppress opposition voices in this country? If more advanced and complex countries than Nigeria can regulate their social media usage and make their online space more credible, what stops us from doing the same?  Some people,  simply they want to have many clicks on their sites in order to have some advantage over others,  would take the picture of the President and that of a female minister and say they are getting married. The implication of all these is that it affects the credibility of the country and that is what we want to safeguard. We are not doing this to gag the press at all. We want the Press to be our partners. We want the Press to see our shortcomings and expose it because they are facts. I don’t want the press to see this bill as if it is being targeted at them. There was a similar bill in the 8th Senate which was thrown away after the stakeholders rejected it, how will you feel if your own also suffer the same fate? I don’t expect the process of the  bill passage to go smoothly. I expect to have opposition,  people that would say they don’t want it. But we shall see the percentage of the people that would say that they don’t want it. The civil society can be very loud. Very few journalists that do not understand can be loud,  but credible journalists would see reason to say they don’t only need these things for my country but we also need it to protect our profession. By the time details of the bill comes out and you see it, you will know that anything that you see in it,  is done in the best interest of this country. I am not being myopic. So many things go on air during electioneering which diminishes the integrity of our country. When these happen, the international community see us as not being serious and investors get scared of coming into our country because they think that Nigeria is at war. As of the time the similar bill was introduced in the 8th Senate, many Nigerians believe that there was a motive behind it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 