Nike Popoola First City Monument Bank says it is partnering with Wakanow, an online travel agency; on convenient and affordable travel package. A statement from the bank said customers of FCMB planning to travel abroad at highly convenient and affordable arrangements would  have the opportunity to do so. It stated that the partnership was for the purpose of offering tourist visa processing, flight bookings, hotel bookings and related travel packages for prospective travellers to countries in Europe, America, Asia, Australia and Africa. The statement said, “The development is aimed at boosting the hospitality business in Nigeria, while also delivering high quality service and satisfaction for the generality of the people. “Already, FCMB and Wakanow have established travel desks at 20 select branches of the bank across Lagos, Abuja, Rivers, Oyo, Kano, Ogun, Anambra and Abia states to offer this value-added travel package. It can also be seamlessly accessed on the bank’s mobile and internet banking platforms.” Speaking during the launch of the partnership in Lagos, the Divisional Head, Corporate Banking, FCMB, Mrs Folake Fajemisin, described the deal as another demonstration of the dynamism and commitment of the bank to meet the needs of its customers. She stated, “We recognise that several of our customers travel all-round the year for holidays. Our partnership with Wakanow gives them an advantage. It is essentially borne out of the need to give Nigerian travellers the best offerings possible when making their travel arrangements. “Through our partnership with Wakanow, we are optimistic the objective will be achieved and further enhance the experience of our customers, considering the company’s pedigree and contributions to the hospitality/tourism industry in Africa. As an inclusive and customer-centric bank, we will continue to innovate ways to impact the lives of Nigerians across segments.” The Chief Executive Officer, Wakanow, Mr Adebayo Adedeji, said, “We are excited to officially launch this partnership with FCMB to bring Wakanow’s travel services closer to our customer base and the public at large.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 