Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A former governor of Ogun State senator representing Ogun Central, Ibikunle Amosun, has disowned posters announcing his presidential ambition in 2023. Amsoun said the time had not come to address such an issue about 2023. Some campaign posters bearing his name and picture for the 2023 presidential race had surfaced online. But the senator said the allegation that he was eyeing the presidential seat stood logic in the head when he had not spent a year in the Senate. Amosun’s reaction was contained in a press statement made available by his media office and signed by his media aide, Bola Adeyemi. The reaction came following a report from a section of the media that the former Ogun governor was banking on his relationship with the President to contest the 2023 election. According to Amosun, those nursing the ambition at this time do not desire any good for the President and is an enemy of the state. The statement read in part, “My attention has just been drawn to a poster, suggesting I had thrown my hat into the 2023 presidential race. It definitely defies logic that such a move would be my preoccupation or in any way linked to me, when indeed I have not spent a year in my current assignment as the senator representing Ogun Central District. “It goes without saying that anyone nursing a Presidential ambition at a time President Muhammadu Buhari has just begun to consolidate on the successes of his first term, is not only an enemy of the Nigerian state but clearly does not desire any good for Mr President. “The poster and any of such publication is nothing but a sheer distraction. As a senator, my hands are full and I am committed to working with fellow patriots on how best to move our nation forward by supporting and working with President Buhari. “There is a time for everything. The time to address 2023 is clearly not anywhere close.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com