Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Global Centre for Conscious Living Against Corruption on Thursday backed President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to present a bill seeking the creation of special courts for corruption-related cases. It said the creation of such courts would hasten the trials of those charged with corruption. The group’s Director-General, Dr Gabriel  Nwambu, who said this at a press conference in Abuja, added that any politician with corrupt cases should be barred from contesting elections. Nwambu urged the National Assembly to expedite action on the President’s bill. He said, “We salute President Muhammadu Buhari for presenting a bill asking for the creation of special courts that would handle corruption cases. “For instance, we believe that the many fraud cases filed against politicians would not have taken this long if we have special courts specifically created to handle corruption cases. “We urge the Senate to give accelerated passage of the bill to boost the anti-corruption agenda of Mr President. “We advocate that in future, no politician standing trial of such crime should be cleared to contest election into any public office. “Although, the 1999 Constitution presumes a suspect to be innocent until proved guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction, we are however worried over the long period of time some of these cases take in our court.” Nwambu opposed situations where former public office holders would be deliberately frustrating their trials by using their “alleged questionable resources to delay judicial proceedings.” He frowned at situations where he said some of them would feign illness, hence could not stand trial, but would be later seen taking active part in political activities. He urged the judiciary not to treat anybody, no matter how highly placed, like a sacred cow when handling corruption cases. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: editor@punchng.com 