Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt There was a violent protest in the Rumuosi community in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State after the body of a 34-year-old woman identified as Miss Charity Ohaka was recovered from a well in the community on Sunday. The deceased was said to have been tied by her assailants and thrown into the well after she was murdered. Charity, according to sources, was a native of Emohua LGA of the state but lived in Rumuosi community before her gruesome murder. It was gathered that the young woman, who usually collected daily savings from people, went missing on Thursday, a development that forced the youths to form a search party and combed the bushes in the community without success. But her corpse was found inside a well after a resident of the community, who went to fetch water from the well-observed the stench from it and raised the alarm. Sources stated that some natives from the area hired a man from the North, who entered into the well after they suspected that the missing woman must have been killed and thrown inside it. Charity’s body was later recovered on Sunday evening. it was discovered that her body was tied to a large brick before it was thrown inside the well. An eyewitness, who spoke with our correspondent but begged not to be mentioned, said Charity’s corpse was found at the bottom of a nearby well. “Charity (Ohaka), who used to collect daily contributions from traders popularly known as Akawo around here, has since last week Thursday been missing. We heard earlier that she was kidnapped. “She is an Ikwerre indigene from Ogbakiri; we heard that her apartment was broken into by her abductors and killers. “After people started complaining about the stench from the well, we informed the local vigilante group and other community members that invited a local Hausa man, who dived into the well to investigate; lo and behold, the body of the missing lady was found at the bottom tied with a heavy block.” Another eyewitness, who only identified himself as Prince, said some angry youths immediately went on a rampage, looting shops, damaging vehicles and attacking and robbing residents and passers-by of their valuables when they heard about the ugly incident. Prince said, “Some angry youths, we believe to be from Ogbakiri in the area, started destroying people’s properties at Rumuosi junction, damaging cars, looting shops and supermarkets. People were running helter-skelter on Sunday evening as they were scared of being robbed or injured by the youths.” Also, the mother of the deceased, Mrs. Evelyn Ohaka, has called on the government to give her justice, adding that Charity, her first daughter must not die in vain. “I want the government to find my daughter’s killers. She was my first daughter. She was born November 5, 1985. I am not happy. The government should go to the house my daughter was living and arrest everybody there. They must find my daughters killers,” she lamented. Our correspondents gathered that Charity’s neighbours had fled their home to avoid being arrested by the police. When contacted, the Rivers State Police Spokesman, Mr. Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the incident, adding that two persons have been arrested in connection to Charity’s gruesome murder. Omoni disclosed that the police had intervened in the matter and restored peace in the area. He added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr. Mustapha Dandaura, had ordered an investigation into the matter. “The police have taken over the matter and peace has been restored in the area. The Commissioner of Police in the state has ordered an investigation into the matter with a view to apprehending the culprits and bring them to book,” Omoni said.  