Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The Forum of Chairmen of Nigeria Political Parties on Monday indicted the Nigeria Police, Nigerian Army and other security agencies over the conduct of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. The forum alleged that security agencies provided cover for political thugs to disrupt the elections and frustrated the efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission. This was stated in a communiqué issued after the national chairmen’s meeting attended by 62 political parties in Abuja. Addressing journalists on behalf of the forum, the National Chairman of Action Alliance, Chief Kenneth Udeze, scored INEC high in its preparation and execution of the election. He said, “At the time of opening the polls on the election day, INEC had successfully carried out all the 13 items listed in the checklist before the polling day. We all are in agreement that the election management body discharged its functions creditably. “On polling day, while some political parties were encouraging voters to vote, others were busy deploying their hired thugs to move from one polling unit to another to disrupt voting and in many instances cart away materials. “We must state that the rigging was a rat race between the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party.” The forum queried the credibility of huge number of policemen and other security agencies deployed for election in the two states. “Despite the thousands of security personnel deployed in Kogi and Bayelsa for the elections, it can be stated that thugs had a field day, particularly in Kogi State, where their activities played a major role in determining who was eventually declared to have won the election,” Udeze added. READ ALSO: Man fakes own kidnap, defrauds US-based mistress of N821,000 The forum said it was disheartening to hear the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, saying that the police got intelligence about the plans of politicians to make police uniforms but did not say what they did to stop them. “He did not announce anything else the police did. He has since not announced the arrest of any of the persons he referred to as fake policemen who went on the rampage and heavily dented the credibility of the election,” he added. READ ALSO: The First Lady’s problematic speech: A few take-aways Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 