Success Nwogu, Abuja The European Union has said that it is imperative to galvanise action among various women groups towards ensuring an inclusive Nigerian state where all citizens, especially women and girls, are treated with dignity and respect. The  EU Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption Programme Officer, Priscilla Ankur, also said the inauguration of the Nigeria sexual offender register presented a tool which documents the identity of persons reported, arraigned and/or convicted of sex crimes. She spoke in Abuja on Wednesday during a national women’s dialogue titled, ‘The Nigeria women want.’ The Country Director, Amnesty International Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, said Nigeria must respect, protect and fulfil human rights for all women regardless of their status, age, position, tribe, religion, or any other factor. The Director-General, National Centre for Women Development, Mrs Mary Ekpere-Eta, said, “It is important for us to reflect as women: What the Nigeria women want, following the poor outcomes for women in the 2019 general elections and representations at all levels of governance.” A former Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs Josephine Anenih, said it was sad that Nigeria ranked 118 out of 134 countries in Gender Equality Index and that only 15 per cent of women had a bank account. Aneineh said, “I am concerned about the livelihood situation of women, 60 to 79 per cent of the rural workforce is women but men are five times more likely to own land. Women make up 21 per cent of the non-agricultural paid labour force. I am worried about the fact that 7.2 per cent of women own the land they farm, which limits their access to credit and constraints entrepreneurship and business activity.” Wife of the Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, said Nigerian women were tired of nursing their raped and battered children back to health. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 