Gbenga Odogun,Lokoja The Director General, Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation, Smart Adeyemi,  has called on the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to monitor  the November 16  Kogi State  governorship election. Adeyemi, who made the call  at a press briefing on Friday in Lokoja, said the ICPC and EFCC’s   presence was needed to monitor the movement  cash  by the Peoples Democratic party to induce voters. He said, “The investigations conducted by the ruling All Progressive Congress into why the  PDP is neither campaigning  have shown clearly that they are stockpiling huge sum of money to compromise INEC and the judiciary after losing the election. “A politician from South-West has pledged  to donate a huge  sum of money  to  the PDP with a view to distabilising  the electoral process and buy off  the judiciary. We in APC will not fold our arms and allow anyone to impose an unpopular governor and a senator on us.” However,  spokesman for  the Musa Wada/Sam Aro Campaign Organisation, Faruk Adejoh, described the  APC’s  allegations as “laughable”. Adejoh said,  “We don’t even have money to campaign not to talk of stockpiling for any purpose. They are the ones with all the money with which they are buying thugs here and there. “Governor Bello has collected about N540bn  in the last four years with nothing to show for it in terms of infrastructure. They know that the day of reckoning is fast approaching, that is why they are crying wolf where there is none.” READ ALSO: Kukah warns Buhari against social media regulation Meanwhile, the Secretary, Media Committee, APC Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council, Tom Ohikere, has dismissed the return of  the Social Democratic Party for the election, Natasha Akpoti. Akpoti was earlier   disqualified from the contest by  the Independent National Electoral Commission. The electoral body had refused to accept the nomination of Adams  Khalid as Akpoti’s running mate  after Mohammed Yakubu was dropped  on the grounds that he was not qualified to run as a deputy governorship candidate on account of his age. But the Federal High Court in Abuja  ruled on Thursday that INEC lacked the power to prevent any candidate from participating in the election without a court order. Justice Folashade Ogunbanjo-Giwa asked the electoral body to allow Akpoti  to take part in the November 16 poll. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com