Adeniyi Olugbemi, Sokoto Members of the family of a slain Fulani herdsman, Usmanu Mohammed, in Ungushi village in the Kebbe Local Government Area of Sokoto State, have denied planning attacks to avenge his death. They, however, called on the state government to ensure that the killers of their son were punished in accordance with the law. The family spoke through the National Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, Muhammadu Kiruwa, when a delegation from the Sokoto State Government paid a condolence visit to the home of the slain herdsman at Mashekarin Masu in the Tambuwal Local Government Area of the state. Mohammed was allegedly ambushed at Ungurshi and killed by members of the vigilante group, Yan Sakai, on suspicion that he belonged to a gang of bandits, an allegation that was later discovered to be untrue. Kiruwa said the reaction of security agencies in the area since Mohammed’s murder was commendable. He stated, “We commend the police for making some arrest on this matter and are still going after more suspects, who are members of the Yan Sakai vigilante group. “We are happy that the state government choose to share in our pain by visiting us at this moment of grieve, but our joy will be complete only if the perpetrators of this wicked act are arrested and prosecuted in accordance with the laws of the land.” Kiruwa, however, dismissed the fear of a possible retaliatory attack by the Fulani, saying, “It is not true that we are mobilising people to come and attack any community in retaliation; we will not do that; it is not in our character and this family will not support such an action. “We accept the demise of our son as the will of Allah; all we are asking for is justice and we will not be happy if those that committed this crime are not arrested and prosecuted.” Governor Aminu Tambuwal, in his condolence message to the family of the deceased, assured them that the killers would be fished out and punished in accordance with the law. He appealed for calm and pleaded with the people to allow the security agencies to carry out their investigation on the matter. The governor made a donation of N1m to take care of the needs of immediate family of the deceased, while appealing to them to remain law-abiding. The governor’s delegation was led by the Chairman of the Kebbe Local Government Area, Auwali Fakku, and his Tambuwal Local Government Area counterpart, Abdullahi Umar Tambuwal, and traditional rulers in the area. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com