Ted Odogwu, Kano The management of the Kano Electricity Distribution Company has announced its decision to commence the metering of its customers in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa states this week. This, the firm said, was in line with the directive of the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission to all electricity distributors to enforce the provision of meters for all customers. The firm said this in a statement signed by its Head of Corporate Communications, Ibrahim Shawai, in Kano on Sunday. Shawai said, “This will cover all KEDCO franchise areas and immediately after the launch on Tuesday, the vendors will begin metering across board. “This is one directive among many that KEDCO has been abiding by as a company and one that seeks to reduce all complaints from the estimated billing system in our quest to ensure that our customers get value for their money in line with best global practices that befit a distribution company of the contemporary time. “The five vendors and the breakdown of the meter rollout plan are, Mojec International, 175,000 for Kano Central and East; Cresthill Engineering Limited, 100,000 for Katsina North and South; Armese Consulting Limited, 100,000 for Kano Industrial and Jigawa South; Momas, 50,000 for Kano West and Katsina Central, and Meron Nigeria Limited, 50,000 for Jigawa North. “The prices set by NERC remain the official prices. The prices for single and three-phase meters were fixed at N35,033.35 and N63,863.72, respectively, excluding VAT.” The firm said it remained committed to the metering scheme initiated by NERC, because it would go a long way in addressing the complaints from customers with respect to estimated billing. “We appeal to all our numerous customers to embrace the launch with the expected response having anticipated such project for a while as a panacea for complaints on estimated billing,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com