Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The abductors of the pastor in charge of Nagarta Baptist Church Ungwan Makiri, close to Udawa in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, have demanded a ransom of N20 million. He was abducted on Wednesday. The Christian Association of Nigeria in Kaduna State confirmed the abduction of the pastor, whose name was given as Pastor Elisha Numan. The Kaduna CAN’s Chairman, Rev. Joseph Hayab, made this known in a statement in Kaduna, the state capital. Our correspondent learnt that the gunmen numbering over 20 invaded the residence of the pastor around 2am on Wednesday, and forcefully made away with the senior pastor of the  Nagarta Baptist Church, Ungwan Makere, near Udawa in Chikun Local Government Area of the state. READ ALSO: Another pastor kidnapped in Kaduna His son, Emmanuel Elisha, who was taken away along with his father (pastor), was later released by the abductors to be used as negotiating contact. It was learnt that the kidnappers threatened the son before releasing him to go and raise the money within five days or risk the father being killed. It was also gathered that the heavily armed men wore military camouflage and forced their ways into the pastor’s house. According to the CAN chairman, the association is yet to hear from him as of the time of filing this report. Hayab said, “One of our pastors has been kidnapped early this morning. Pastor Elisha S. Numan of Nagarta Baptist Church Ungwan Makere near Udawa. Udawa is in Chikun Local Government of Kaduna State. We are yet to hear from him. “They took him and his son at 2:00 a.m. this Wednesday morning from their home but later released the son.” However, the kidnappers later made contact with the family and are demanding N20m ransom before the pastor could gain his freedom. Emmanuel, while narrating his ordeal at the hands of his abductors, also said they carted away some valuables from their house. He said, “About 20 armed men came to the village and started hitting and banging at doors but nobody opened. “They forced their way into houses and vandalised properties and carted away some valuables, including mobile phones and clothing in my mother’s box(luggage). “They(kidnappers) later picked me together with my father. But after we have moved a while in the bush, I was released and they went away with my father. “One of them was dressed in military camouflage. As they released me, they threatened that if we didn’t bring money(ransom) in five days even though they didn’t mention the specific ransom, they will kill him(pastor). “They later called us and asked us to raise N20m ransom so they could release him. We don’t have that kind of money but we are still negotiating with them. “We are yet to report to the police because even when we had similar experience in the past and contacted them, they did not do anything about it.” This was coming less than two weeks after the abduction of Pastor Jeremiah Omolewa of the Living Faith Church, Ungwan Romi also in  Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Omolewa was killed by his abductors and the wife kidnapped while the son escaped. The kidnappers demanded a N50m ransom before they could release the pastor’s wife.  She, however, regained her freedom after the payment of N3m ransom, according to a source. As of the time of filing this report, the Kaduna State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, did not respond to calls and messages sent to him.