International wire transfers are efficient, fast and cost-effective. However, they can become a costly and timeconsuming problem if you make any of the following mistakes, according to https://www.gbofintech.com. Comparing wire transfer service providers One of the first mistakes you can make with wire transfers is not comparing the services offered by different transfer providers. Different wire transfer providers charge different fees and exchange rates. It is important to compare providers as well as banks offering this service. If you opt to make the transfer via a bank, take into consideration that you may need to pay fees to both the sending and receiving banks. On the other hand non-bank transfer providers generally charge lower fees and offer better exchange rates than banks. The type of transfer you make will also affect your choice of provider – if you are sending a large amount or plan on making frequent and regular transfers then, a foreign exchange dealer may be the better choice for you. Miscalculating wire transfer fees When making an international money wire transfer, there are two main expenses – the provider’s service fee and the currency conversion rate used when sending money in one currency and having it arrive in a different currency. Both these expenses vary depending on the provider. A common mistake when making a wire transfer is not taking into account both of these charges. A provider may charge a low service fee but hit you with an unfavourable exchange rate or you may be given a high service charge but excellent rate of exchange. Don’t make the mistake of not comparing these two expenses when choosing your transfer provider. Incorrect calculation of the wire transfer delivery time Another common mistake when making an international transfer is miscalculating the estimated time of delivery. It is important to do some research and find out how long the wire transfer will take. The speed of a transfer can vary from provider to provider especially when it is an international transfer. Most non-bank wire transfer providers offer several options for express delivery or slower delivery. The payment method can also affect the overall speed of the transfer. If you pay using a prepaid debit card, the delivery time is usually faster but more expensive than payment by direct withdrawal from a bank. Don’t forget weekends and holidays in both the sending and receiving countries can effect delivery time. READ ALSO: 5 Nigerian girls at 2019 Technovation World Pitch Summit need our votes! Incorrect account details One of the most frustrating mistakes you can make when placing a wire transfer is to provide the incorrect account details for the sender or the recipient. This results in time-consuming delays and increased fees. International wire transfers require full bank details and routing numbers of both the sender and recipient. The number format and required codes can vary from country to country making the process complicated. If the incorrect details are provided, you could find your money being sent to a stranger’s account and have to use valuable time and resources to correct the mistake. Currency conversion problems To send funds in one currency and have it arrive in a different currency, currency conversion needs to occur. For example, if you are wiring money from your dollar account in the US to a Euro account in Germany, somewhere along the line there has to be currency conversion in order for the correct currency to arrive in the recipient’s account. If this step is missed, your transfer may be rejected or the foreign bank may convert your money at a higher exchange rate for an additional fee. This can result in the recipient getting funds in the wrong currency or receiving less money than anticipated. Knowing the best transfer method International wire transfers are a great way to send money between countries if done correctly. You can easily transfer money to people across the globe if you are careful to avoid these common mistakes. According to https://tipalti.com, there is a need to know the best method to transfer funds internationally between bank accounts? Paper cheques are out of the question—they are susceptible to a number of risks, including theft in the mail— so you are left with a choice between payment methods: an international wire transfer or a direct deposit of funds using local bank networks, also called global ACH. In some cases, e-wallets or prepaid debit cards are an option, but these methods can complicate the process by adding multiple steps to transfer those funds in and out of a bank account. Both wire transfer and local bank transfer essentially achieve the same thing, which is transferring money from one bank account to another, but each remittance or payment method has unique implications and requirements. For instance, the transfer fees (cost of the service), information needed, and the amount of time it takes to transfer money from one financial institution to another. So, which method is best for an international money transfer? Weigh them against these three factors—speed, fees (and limits), and regulations—to determine the payment method that best meets your needs: If you are in a rush to get funds from your bank account into the recipient’s account, there is a clear winner: international wire transfer. Typically, funds remitted through an international wire transfer only takes two business days to arrive because you are sending the money directly from your account (such as a business current or savings account) to the recipients account at the receiving bank. In other words, the banks (the sender and the receiver) are in direct communication with each other. You’ll need account numbers such as the SWIFT code or IBAN (International Bank Account Number) of the foreign bank to complete the international wire transfer. The direct deposit transfer option (also known as local bank transfers, international ACH transfer, and global ACH) often takes two extra business days when compared with the speed of a wire transfer. Outbound wire transfer cut-offs times can vary from bank to bank and often depend on the time zone of the originating bank. Instead of communicating bank to a bank, the direct deposit leverages the clearing network in the country of the recipient’s bank. For example, the clearing network in the United States is NACHA (National Automated Clearing House Association), and in Europe, the clearing network is SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area). Funds transferred through the direct deposit method are processed in batches or groups with other transactions also using bank transfers, which means the process can take a few hours or a few days to complete.