Friday Olokor, Abuja A coalition of international organisations has expressed concern over the condition of Nigerian prisons, adding that over 2,000 inmates are on death row in the country as of the end of 2018. The group, however, commended the Federal Government for the signing of the bill on prison reform, changing the name of the Nigerian Prisons Service to Nigerian Correctional Services. The organisations included the World Coalition for the Abolition of Death Penalty; Community of Sant’Egidio and Life Wire International Foundation. The members of the coalition made their report public during a press conference held on Thursday in Abuja with the theme: ‘Prison reform and ending death penalty in Nigeria,’ after visiting different prisons across Nigeria, including Ikoyi, Kirikiri, Port Harcourt and Enugu. The Vice-President, World Coalition for the Abolition of Death Penalty, Ms. Annemarie Pieters, said they welcomed the fact that the new law provided the possibility to change capital punishment to life imprisonment after 10 years. She said, “The death penalty is not carried out frequently, only seven in the last decade, resulting in a kind of ‘de facto moratorium’ on execution. “We express concern for the fact that Nigeria continues to have many death sentences, despite the proven fact that this is not a deterrent factor for new crimes to be committed. “By the end of 2018, there are over 2,000 people on death row in Nigeria, including at least 46 people that have been sentenced to death that year, which is the highest number of people on death row in the region by the end of 2018.” A member of Sant’Egidio Community, Prof Jan De Volder, called on the National Assembly and the judiciary to make sure that the laws were properly implemented, especially for quicker and better procedures, so that suspects do not spend endless period behind bars. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com