Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The grandmother to a suspected drug addict, Florence Adebimpe, on Monday, pleaded with an Osun State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Osogbo to remand her grandson, Ayomide Solomon, in prison as he often assaulted her. Her plea was, however, rejected by the court, as the accused, who was considered unfit to stand trial, was instead sent to a rehabilitation home. Appearing before Magistrate Rofiat Olayemi, Solomon, 20, looked shabby and was incoherent while answering questions directed at him by the court. The one count of assault preferred against him read, “That you, Ayomide Solomon, on August 17, 2019, around 3am at the Halleluya area, Osogbo, did assault one Florence Adebimpe, who happens to be your grandmother, by beating her all over her body, thereby committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 351 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34 Vol. II, Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002.” When asked what led to the arrest of the accused, Adebimpe, who complained of body ache and could not stand to address the court, said she took custody of Solomon following the death of his mother. She said the accused often assaulted her and steal her things, adding that Solomon again beat her up for no reason last Saturday and urged the court to remand him to save her from further assault. The Investigating Police Officer, Josephine Edrah, when asked to shed light on the circumstances leading to the arrest of the suspect, explained that Solomon had been apprehended twice in the past for assaulting his grandmother. READ ALSO: EFCC arraigns woman for collecting N22.9bn from Dasuki While responding to questions by the court, Solomon, who claimed to be a rap artiste, denied assaulting his granny, but was largely incoherent in his response to other questions. Ruling on the matter, Olayemi ordered that Solomon be transferred to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency’s rehabilitation centre in Osogbo. She said the centre should send a report on his treatment by September 23, when the court would sit again on the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com