Feyisayo Popoola The Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Kayode Fayemi, has encouraged investors to invest in the state and its assets to enable the expansion of its social investment programmes to create jobs for youths. Fayemi, while speaking at the Facts Behind the State Economy at the Nigerian Stock Exchange on Friday, said the state had cleared all its outstanding bonds listed on the NSE. According to him, Ekiti is ready for more investments and officials are available to answer questions on the investment opportunities that exist. Fayemi noted that the government could not create jobs in massive terms without the collaboration of the private sector. He said, “It is the private sector that can fly that process. But we have a duty to make the climate and condition for job creation available for the private sector to thrive. “We have passed a law establishing the Ekiti State Development and Investment Promotion Agency. Once the agency commences full operations, it will drive our Ease of Doing Business reforms and provide investors with a one-stop shop to deal with investment-related matters.” “The state’s tourism assets also provide significant investment opportunities. At the appropriate time, the state will seek investors for some of its existing assets, as well as several greenfield opportunities. “This will be complemented by a clear strategy on attracting business, recreational and medical or wellness tourists to Ekiti State.” Fayemi said the state had renewed its focus on peace and security, which he described as the foundation of any economic development, adding that it had started investing in developing the infrastructure required to make Ekiti State a competitive destination for business. He said, “We are quite concerned about the increasing spate of violence against ordinary citizens and it is the duty of the government to provide security and welfare of the citizens.” Fayemi stressed the need to adopt a comprehensive response mechanism that would tackle the increasing poverty level and inequality in the society to curb insecurity in Nigeria. He noted that only a collaborative approach with the private sector could successfully tackle and overcome security challenges facing the country. Fayemi stated that the state had a long history of partnership with NSE, adding that the bond raised by the state had been fully repaid. He said the state would continue to partner with the Exchange to grow the economy. He urged more companies and individuals to see Ekiti State as a destination of choice for investment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com