Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has urged the Federal Government to  provide drones  for  the military  to  enhance the fight against criminal activities  in the state. Fayemi, who praised  the  efforts of  the military to end insurgency in the  North-East, also called for more support for the forces  to enable  them  to overcome other  security challenges facing the country. The governor, who was  represented by his deputy, Bisi Egbeyemi, said this  in Ado Ekiti while receiving  the General Officer Commanding 2 Division of the Nigerian Army, Ibadan, Maj Gen Anthony Omozeje. A statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola,  said on Monday Omozeje was on an official visit to the state. Ogunmola  said, “The governor, who wanted the military in the state to prioritise the safety of life  and property of Ekiti people, said he was expecting the Federal Government to give drones to the  forces  in the state to enable them to fish out miscreants.” Fayemi assured  the military chief that  the state  government  would  continue to support  the army. He  said,  “We appreciate your efforts and we know what you are doing in the country as a whole, this is not an easy time for soldiers in the country. We are all humans, we know what you are going through and we really appreciate. “I know you are everywhere in the country, the work you are doing in the far North is courageous, we need to thank all the soldiers that are involved.  Your boss, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, is  always in the picture of all things, I salute his courage.” Omozoje lauded the state government  for supporting  the army, assuring Fayemi that  the military would work with his administration  to ensure the protection of life and property. The GOC  called  for the state government  to support  the army “in creating an environment devoid of fear, threat or danger for the people.” Omozeje said, “I am also here to see how my men are doing, what challenges they are facing and what we could do to make them perform better.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com