Gbenga Adeniji Normalcy has returned to the Oke-Odo Market, Ile-Epo, in the Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area of Lagos State after Hausa and Yoruba traders clashed on Sunday. There was a fight between some traders from the two ethnic groups after a Hausa porter otherwise called Bolar boy accidentally hit a Yoruba man with his wheelbarrow used in conveying goods for traders and buyers. The issue degenerated into a free-for-all in which four persons were reportedly injured. It took the intervention of police teams from Oke Odo Police Division, Rapid Response Squad and the Lagos State Task Force on Environment and Sanitation (Enforcement) Unit to quell the conflict. City Round visited the market on Thursday and observed that buying and selling were ongoing unhindered masking any hint that it was engulfed in crisis four days ago. Speaking with our correspondent, the Market Leader of Oke-Odo Market, Phase Two, identified only as Alhaja Anifowose, said she was not in the market on the day of the incident as she usually doesn’t trade on Sundays. She said, “I was in Ifo, Ogun State, that day when they called me that Yoruba and Hausa were fighting. I was also told that the Iyaloja General, Chief Folashade (Tinubu-Ojo) has alerted the state Task Force who mobilised to contain the fight. “Beyond what happened, those who often cause crisis in the market are some hoodlums mostly foreigners from Niger Republic who populated a dump near the market. They are many there. “Sometimes, all they need to hear is a shout from anywhere in the market and they will troop out into the market to foment trouble. They are also porters and if they use a wheelbarrow to hit anyone, they will start trouble when the person reacts. “It may be a packaged water sachet that they will drop when passing by someone and claim the person’s hand hits and falls it. Before the person apologises, they will engage him in a fight. All traders work in harmony in the market. But these people are the problems.” She said leaders in the market were invited by the police over the Sunday incident, adding that she also held a meeting with the Hausa leader in the market. “We are appealing to the Lagos State Government to help us rid the dump of the hoodlums. I believe that their time is up and that is why this happened. If those hoodlums are flushed out of the dump, there will be peace. “We can’t even stay longer in the market. Once it’s getting to 7pm, we close for the day to avoid snatching of mobiles and purses,” she added. The Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Police Command, Bala Elkana, didn’t pick calls to his mobile nor reply the text message sent to him on the incident at the time of filing this report on Friday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 