Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Development Services), University of Lagos, Prof. Folasade Ogunsola, has said Nigerian must embrace the use of renewable solar energy to increase access to electricity. Ogunsola spoke at a public lecture on ‘Africa rising: Harnessing the power of disruptive technology to bridge the development divide in education and health – an imperative for tertiary education’. She stated this at the seventh annual public lecture of the Consortium for Advanced Research Training in Africa, held at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan. While maintaining that the digital revolution required energy, the don attributed low access to electricity to high population growth rate and uneven development. She advised the government to urgently work on how to control the population, saying infrastructure development would not match a geometrically growing population without population control. Ogunsola stressed the need for data generation for the future, advising that the Nigerian government should also address problems in the health care system. She said, “The digital revolution is dependent on energy. The access rate to electricity in Africa has been slowly rising since 2000 and currently stands at 43 per cent but Africa accounts for 600 million of the one billion people globally without access to electricity. “The projection for sub-Saharan Africa is that access will double by 2030 but there will still be about 600 million without access due to high population growth rates and uneven development. “This low rate of access can be turned to a major advantage with the embrace of renewable energy such as solar energy.” In his speech, the Vice Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, who was represented by the Provost College of Medicine, Prof. Oluwabunmi Olopade-Olaopa, said that Africa researchers must conduct locally relevant researches that could transform the continent into a global power. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com