The treaty, created more than four decades ago, regulates trade in some 36,000 species of plants and animals and provides mechanisms to help crackdown on illegal trade and sanction countries that break the rules. The sense of urgency was palpable at the conference against the backdrop of fires raging in the Amazon and following UN warnings in May that climate change, habitat loss and other factors are pushing one million species to the brink of extinction. READ ALSO: FG bows to pressure reduces visa fees for Americans “The world is waking up to the reality that we are at a turning point for saving our planet’s wildlife,” said Jeffrey Flocken, president of Humane Society International, noting that countries “seem to be shifting their focus from exploiting animals to protecting them.” At the conference, giraffes were listed for the first time in CITES Annex II, thus requiring tracking and regulation of trade, after fears the gentle giants are facing a “silent extinction”. But the proposal met stiff resistance from the southern African region, where giraffe populations are healthier and have traditionally been better protected. Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa also lambasted the CITES conference’s rejection of a request by a number of countries in southern Africa to sell their stockpiles of ivory. Global trade in elephant ivory has largely been outlawed since 1989 after their numbers plunged, falling from millions in the mid-20th century to an estimated 415,000 in 2015. But countries in southern Africa, where populations are considered healthy and well-protected, argue they should be allowed to sell stockpiles to help fund conservation efforts. Speaking on behalf of 10 southern African countries, Tanzania’s representative warned Wednesday that they might withdraw from CITES. In another controversial move, delegates in Geneva also decided to list 18 species of rays and sharks, including the mako — the fastest shark in the ocean — in Annex II. The delegates also decided to significantly tighten protections for a number of species already on the CITES radar. The same was true for a number of other species under pressure from the exotic pet trade, including the Indian star tortoise and several turtle and lizard species. The conference also upped the pressure on Mexico to rein in illegal fishing that could rapidly doom the critically endangered vaquita marina porpoise to extinction, hinting that trade sanctions could be on the table if more is not done in the coming year. Conservationists widely hailed the conference for tightening protections for a long list of species. But Susan Lieberman of the Wildlife Conservation Society acknowledged that providing more CITES protections to species was a “bittersweet success”. “It means that more and more species are threatened or endangered,” she said in a statement. (AFP)