UNDER no illusion that the deplorable condition of federal roads in its domain is hindering economic progress and social life, Ogun State has taken upon itself to turn things around in its favour. To attain this, the governor, Dapo Abiodun, has entreated the Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to allow the state to rehabilitate the strategic highways linking it with Lagos and other parts of the country. It is a bold move, which is bound to have a salutary effect on the state’s economy. Listed for intervention are three of such highways, including the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway and Epe-Ijebu-Ode Road. The third leg is the Ikorodu-Sagamu Road. For decades, these critical arteries that link Ogun to major industrial hubs in Lagos have deteriorated scandalously. This is because rehabilitation efforts by the Federal Government are glaringly woeful. The Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, among other highways, defines this negligence. The contract to rebuild it was inked in 2001. Eighteen years after, it is still uncompleted. Worse, as Abiodun persuasively argued when making a request to the President to cede the road to the state, it will take the next 26 years for its completion to be effected at the current rate of N1 billion budgetary allocation per fiscal year. By that time, the passable sections now would have been damaged. Undaunted, the governor is eager to turn the situation to the state’s advantage, mainly for economic and social reasons. “If we construct Epe-Ijebu-Ode Road, it means people coming from the East and from Ijebu (will) no longer have to go through the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway… if that road is completed, it means all these roads will suffer less wear and tear. Our people live in Ogun and work in Lagos; at times, they have to wake up at 4am to be able to make it to the office at 8am.” Without a doubt, these are compelling reasons for Buhari to accede to Abiodun’s request. The World Bank states that roads make a crucial contribution to economic development and growth and bring important social benefits. Sadly, the reverse is the case here. In 2017, the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission painted an awful picture of the deterioration. Of Nigeria’s 195,000-kilometre road network, 135,000 km of it is un-tarred. A high percentage of the Federal Government’s stock of 32,000 km is in an atrocious condition, both paved and unpaved. Contracts are awarded, but not executed. This has entailed unsavoury high project variation costs. The Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, contracted in 2009 at N87 billion, has yet to be completed. The cost of the Sagamu-Lagos section has jumped to N134 billion with 2021 as the new date for completion. The 1.6 kilometre Second Niger Bridge inaugurated by Goodluck Jonathan during his presidency, the Ibadan-Ilorin Expressway, the East-West Road, Ife-Ilesa-Akure Road, Badagry Expressway, Oshodi-Apapa Expressway and Benin-Sagamu, all economically strategic, among others, are suffering the same fate. Indeed, the poor condition of roads is not peculiar to Ogun State; it is a national malady. In 2017, the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, described as Africa’s busiest highway, was bogged down by petty politics after the National Assembly ludicrously reduced its budget from N31 billion to N20 billion at a time the government owed the contractors N15 billion. Earlier, the Ministry of Works received a capital budget of N18 billion for fiscal year 2015 and N280 billion the following year. This is a drop in the ocean. In April, the immediate past Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Mustapha Shehuri, stated that government required N3 trillion to rehabilitate its roads. Primarily, this has instigated some governors to undertake the rehabilitation of these federal roads in their states. In August 2018, the Senate, in a detailed enquiry, concluded that the Federal Government owed 21 states N489.6 billion on the federal roads that they had repaired in their domains. Ogun was to receive an initial refund of N59.2 billion out of the N124 billion approved for it; Lagos’ due was N114.5 billion, Akwa Ibom N78.9 billion and Zamfara N60.02 billion. Unwittingly, these refunds have been a source of acrimony between the two tiers of government. With the states anxious to be refunded and the Federal Government insisting on specification and approval before work could commence on the sites, it is usually mired in delay. Therefore, as good as the Ogun governor’s intention is, the terms of the contracts must be well-spelt-out. Without that, it is a leap into uncertainty and legal disputations. Cognisant of the fact that quality roads drive economic development, the global best practice is for governments to invest in this infrastructure through a mix of creative policies and partnership with the private sector. In 2018, the United Kingdom stated that it would upgrade its roads with £28.8 billion between 2020 and 2025. On its part, Transport for London, the agency saddled with managing the capital’s strategic or red routes funded its £725 million road maintenance bill in 2017/18 through a mixture of grants, parking fees and the congestion charge. In 2018, California budgeted $994 million for highway rehabilitation and replacement, and $576 million for maintenance. Listing road building as a priority area, the mission of Narenda Modi’s government was to build 9,000 km of roads across India in 2018. But road construction here is bogged down in delays, poor funding, awful execution and corruption. The governor should ensure a faster delivery of these projects. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com