Oluwatobi Akindele The police have arrested a driver, Alex Andrew, for allegedly robbing the Chairman of the Oriade Local Council Development Area of Lagos State, Ramotalai Hassan, and two others, Rasak Oloyede and Adamo Amao, in the Satellite Town area of the state. Andrew’s accomplice, Ejiro Edoh, was also arrested for buying one of the phones stolen from the vicitms. It was gathered that Andrew, alongside his other gang members, used short guns and iron chains to rob the victims while in traffic on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway by the Dantata junction, Satellite Town, on May 16, 2019, around 8.40pm, and stole valuables and money worth N9m. The recovery of one of the stolen phones led to the arrest of Andrew, who reportedly confessed to the crime. The suspects were subsequently arraigned before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court. The first defendant, Andrew, was arraigned on five counts bordering on conspiracy, armed robbery and malicious damage, while the second defendant, Edoh, was arraigned on one count of receiving a stolen item. The charges read in part, “That you, Alex Andrew, and others at large, on May 16, 2019, around 8.40pm, at the Dantata junction, Satellite Town area of Lagos, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit; armed robbery. “That you, Alex Andrew and others at large, on the same date, time and place, in the aforesaid magisterial district, while armed with  a locally-made cut-to-size gun and iron chain, did snatch one Samsung S8+ phone valued at N300,000, which has been recovered; one Samsung Galaxy S8 phone valued at N300,000; gold earring; hand bangle; necklace with pendant valued at N2.2m; handbag valued at N310,000; and cash sum of N6m, all valued at N8,820,000, property of one Ramotalai Hassan. “That you, Alex Andrew and others at large, on the same date, time and place, in the aforesaid magisterial district, while carrying out robbery operation, did maliciously damage three side glasses of a Ford vehicle valued N105,000 with an iron chain, while the victims were stuck in traffic. “That you Ejiro Eboh, sometime in May 2019, around 11.40pm, on Nasamu Street, Ajegunle, Lagos, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did dishonestly receive one stolen Samsung S8 phone valued at N300,000 from one Ifeanyi Chinedu, a gang member of Alex Andrew, knowing full well that it was a stolen phone, being the property of one Rasak Olojede.” The police prosecutor, Kenrich Nomayo, said the offences contravened sections 299, 297(1)(2)(a), 351(d)(1), and 328(1)(2) and (3) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015 While the first defendant’s plea was not taken, the second defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge. READ ALSO: Assembly probes Ambode over purchase of N45bn buses The presiding magistrate, Mrs Israel Adelakun, remanded the first defendant in prison custody pending advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions and granted the second defendant bail in the sum of N150,000 with one surety in like sum. Adelakun ruled that the surety must be gainfully employed with evidence of tax payment to the Lagos State Government and have the address verified by the court. She added that the surety must present bank statements and reside within the court’s jurisdiction. The magistrate adjourned the case till September 29, 2019. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 