Feyisayo Popoola Whether you are a small business owner who already incorporates online marketing techniques into your marketing campaigns, or you are just starting to use social media in your business, there are always new tools to explore, tips to learn, and resources to review in order to stay up-to-date and use each social media site effectively. Entrepreneurs need toa strive to maximise the opportunity of the social media to boost their business. There is often a great deal of confusion among new Facebook users about the difference between Facebook profiles, pages, and groups. The most important point to keep in mind is that profiles are meant to be for individuals only, not businesses. Creating a profile for a business is against Facebook’s terms of use, and it can be deleted at any time. Small business owners should always create a separate social media page for the public promotion of their businesses. It’s also worth exploring groups on WhatsApp, Telegram or Facebook that can facilitate a discussion among members and loosely promote the business. But a page should always be the first step for a business. Saying that you need to create a social media page because everyone else is doing it is not on its own enough of a reason to get your business on social media, but it is one of the top six reasons. The reasons for creating a social media page for your business are many, from having an opportunity to build a community around your business, to discovering more about your target audience, to adding a public face to your brand. If you are marketing your business online, you can’t afford to be without a social media page for such business. Here are three key steps to choosing the right platform for your business, according to thrivehive.com: Seek out your target audience Who is your target audience? On which platforms are they spending most of their time? When they are on these platforms, what are they doing? What are they seeking out? Who are they interacting with? How are they interacting with the platform? Look at the key demographics such as gender and location of the users and gain a general understanding of what each network is used for. You may also want to check out which platforms your competitors have successfully engaged with their audience on. A simple Google keyword search can help you see which social media network your market is most active on. For example, try search terms like “motorcycle shops + Facebook”, or “motorcycles + Pinterest”. Even if your business caters to a niche market, you’ll be surprised at the broad spectrum of users who are on social media networks. Define your objective on social media What are your social media marketing goals? Are you trying to grow your audience, spread word of mouth, or engage with your current customers on social media? Perform an audit of your business. Start with identifying gaps in your current marketing plans. Do you need to, grow your base, improve your customer service and build customer loyalty? Also create a channel for customer feedback, update your customers on new products, services, or deals, increase traffic to your website and conduct informal market research. Initially, rather than defining your goals in terms of the number of fans or followers you want to reach, think about which platforms will help you increase engagement with your audience. The number of followers you have is simply a vanity metric that does not indicate business success. It is important to keep in mind that with social media, a larger audience does not necessarily convert to real results for your business, while ahighly engaged audience (despite its size) will. Align the objectives of your social media marketing plan with the platform that will complement your goals. Identify your resources and skills What types of resources and skills are needed to execute a successful social media marketing plan for the different types of networks? We already know now that each platform is unique in terms of how you can engage your audience, but each platform also complements different sets of skills and require different resources to execute. It is not only important to align the needs of your business with the right social network, but it is also vital that you have the skillset and resources to effectively use it. There are also a number of free marketing tools online to help you create content that is optimised for each type of social media network. Think about what your strengths are and research what type resources or skills are involved to be successful on each network. How to grow your community on social media A lot of things change on the social media scene every day, but one thing is certain. It takes a lot of work and consistency to take a social media page and develop it into a community. It all starts with creating a customised and useful page, but then it comes down to the everyday interaction that makes the difference. While your type of business, your customers or clients, and your industry can play a role in how you use your social media page, there are some universal things you can do to make your business page memorable, relevant, and a favourite place for your fans. Advertising on social media is one of the best ways to get the word out about your business and your business page. Facebook’s Marketplace Ads allow you to promote your page right on Facebook, and Facebook provides a number of tools to help you do this effectively. In fact, Facebook’s own “Guide to Facebook Ads” walks you through the entire advertising process, including planning, creating ads, testing, and understanding insight statistics. It’s a great starting place for any small business owner interested in trying Facebook advertising. Using social media to promote your business can go beyond your page and promotion of your page. You can also use your personal account to make connections with colleagues and prospects, start conversations and network online. The biggest challenge here is managing the personal/business line and taking care to make sure all of your interactions remain professional. With clear objectives and plan for managing your connections, you can use social media to network and develop great business relationships. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 