Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Lagos State Government has commenced the process for the rehabilitation of Maiyegun Road in the Ojo Local Government Area of the state. The road, which is 350 metres by 7.5 metres in dimension, was last year awarded to NTS Nigeria Limited for upgrading. The road project, according to the state government, will take traffic off the Lagos-Badagry Road, by improving connectivity between the expressway and Olojo Drive. Upon completion, it is expected to have asphaltic surfacing, cover slab and walkways, drainage system and service ducts, street lights powered by generators, laybys, lane marking and kerbs painting. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Mr Foluso Dipe, during a stakeholders’ meeting told residents and traditional leaders of the area that the road rehabilitation project was a manifestation of the resolve of the Lagos State Government to spread development across the state. He said that the rehabilitation of the road was being undertaken to improve the economic activities in the area and address the distressed state of the road, reduce vehicular travel time and enhance the living standard of residents of the area. He said, “In view of the benefits of the road project, we should embrace and support it. It is something that will be achieved quickly and with less pain that comes with development. “The government will try to cushion the effects as Lands Bureau has been mandated to take inventory of properties on the Right of Way of the project and make appropriate recommendations.” Dipe, however, urged members of the Maiyegun community to take ownership of the project and accommodate site engineers and ministry officials for speedy completion of the road as well as its longevity. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, Mr Olujimi Houtonu, who was represented at the meeting by the Director of Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation, Mr Lateef Somide, said that the road would address flooding in the area. A member of the Lagos House of Assembly, representing Ojo Constituency 1, Mr Victor Akande, commended the state government for the initiative, adding that Ojo had been neglected for a long time. While assuring the state government of the people’s support, he said there was also a need for issues of security and waste management to be addressed in the area. A representative of the Olojo of Ojo, Chief Rafiu Maiyegun, while commending the government, said more roads in the area required rehabilitation. The Project Supervisor, NTS, Mr Thomas Oti, said the project would be completed in three months or less with the cooperation of residents of the community. Meanwhile, the newly appointed Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, has promised a better deal for the built environment in the state. Salako said he would strive to attain a liveable, organised and prosperous city in line with the mandate of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. He made the promise during a reception organised by the management of the ministry to welcome him and the Special Adviser, Urban Development, Mr Kabir Abdullahi. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com