Police retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme are unhappy over delay in the payment of their pensions, among other challenges of the scheme, NIKE POPOOLA reports Retirees under the Nigeria Police Force Pensions Limited are groaning over the hardships they have been subjected to as a result of alleged failed promises under the Contributory Pension Scheme. The retirees, whose pensions are being managed by the Police Pension Fund Administrator and regulated by the National Pension Commission, are worried that the delay in payment of their entitlements has exposed them and their family members to avoidable deprivation and life-threatening poverty. A concerned member of the Association of Retired Police Officers, Ismail Adekunle, expressed worry that after 35 years of service to their country, and having put their lives on the line for the safety of the country, they deserved better treatment in their vulnerable old age than what they were currently getting. According to the retiree, the delay in payment and the ridiculously low stipends being paid to them in many cases are not only undermining the core objectives of the CPS but also denting the image of the Pension Fund Administrators. The retiree noted that in many cases, a police constable still in service was earning between N42,000 and N47,000 after the deduction of tax, accommodation allowance and others. A sergeant’s pay is also said to be about N50,000 while a police inspector is reportedly being paid about N60,000 monthly. In the senior officers’ cadre, an assistant superintendent of police is said to earn a little above N80,000 after tax deductions. “This is greatly affecting pension benefits paid to the officers at retirement because the pension is based on the salary, hence the benefit at retirement is also low,” a retiree said. At retirement, a police inspector is said to earn about N20,000, while those in the superintendent cadre earn about N30,000. Some of the retirees said that the recent reversal of the template used to calculate the pension payments by the regulator, the National Pension Commission, had further caused some problems within the system. This is causing so much agitation among the police retirees and they are reportedly mounting pressure on the NPF Pensions Limited to pull out of the CPS completely. The retirees said they were greatly disturbed by the way their pensions were being handled. They said they were worried that PenCom had refused to approve some payment for the retirees from the available balances in their Retirement Savings Accounts, pending when the Federal Government would pay their accrued rights. Part of the agitation of the retirees is that the PFAs are not allowed to pay them from their contributions made since they joined the CPS. The retirees said they had every right to ask for part of their contributions because the Federal Government had been unable to fulfil its obligations in the first place. Another retiree, Amao Babatinde, said, “And so with this problem, PenCom should show a human face in its regulatory and supervisory activities. Some of the retirees are dying without enjoying the fruit of their labour because the commission claims to be waiting for accrued rights. “While waiting for accrued rights, PenCom should allow the PFAs to pay the retirees from the balance in their RSAs. By the time a retiree is paid for a year, the accrued rights are paid and then the PFA can regularise and pay the balance. The question of exhausting the balance in one year as argued by PenCom is not tenable because a retiree cannot exhaust their balance. “There is always a return or interest from investment of the pension fund made on behalf of the retiree by their PFA. Does PenCom consider that the retirees have responsibilities to their children and other members of their family? He also said PenCom should remember that some retirees were breadwinners of their homes before retirement and that denying them their pensions would amount to putting their lives and those of their dependants on the line. “How are they going to survive? Even if it is N1m that they were able to contribute into their account, allow the PFA to spread it so that there will not be a sudden cut of income. An officer earning N100,000 a month before retirement deserves at lease N30,000 pension stipend to keep body and soul together,” Babatunde said. A retired police officer, who spoke on the issue on condition of anonymity, said that the Pension Reform Act did not state that a PFA should wait and consolidate accrued rights before a retiree could be paid. The new arrangement, according to them, is being imposed by PenCom based on administrative convenience on their part. The police retiree called on the Federal Government and PenCom to address the lingering hardships of the police. He said, “You have taken away their career; you have taken away the salary. Can’t the human mind think of criminality to survive? The President should remember that we have trained them in the use of arms. “This is a serious security challenge to the country because a hungry man can do anything to survive. Allowing them to retire without paying them any pension benefit or placing them on low monthly pension is a disaster waiting to happen.” The retiree also said the police have every right to agitate for a better deal at retirement and that the agitation must be urgently addressed by PenCom, the Inspector-General of Police and the NPF Pensions Limited. “They need to save the nation from the looming outrage of retired police officers and men. Unless the retirees are given a gratuity separate from pension, they will continue to complain. “It is painful that after risking their lives to protect the country, a ministry worker will earn better than them at retirement.” The retiree urged the Federal Government to immediately pay the accrued rights to relieve the retirees of their burden. “They should also be paid their gratuities. Unless this is done, the police will feel cheated,” a retiree stated. He also warned that the little success already achieved by the CPS since the inception of the scheme could be eroded if the matter was not handled speedily and with tact. Efforts made to speak with the spokesman of PenCom, Peter Aghahowa, on the matter proved abortive. He neither responded to the calls made to his telephone line nor the text message sent to the line. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   