Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta The father of the deceased farm worker, Ismaila Ogunsola, Mr Mukaila Ogunsola, has appealed to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, to assist the family to get justice for their late son. The father, on behalf of the Ogunsola family of Owode-Egba area of the state, called on Abiodun to intervene in the matter and ensure that the state police command did not sweep the matter under the carpet. The corpse of Ismaila was discovered on a mango tree on the farm of his boss on August 12, with the family alleging that he was murdered. Ogunsola said the family was unhappy with the role of the police investigating team in the matter, especially for releasing the farm owner, Segun Adekoya. The grieving father alleged that the police investigating team might have been “heavily mobilised,” hence its decision to release Adekoya, while persuading the family to accept N100,000 compensation from him. Adekoya is the owner of the Offshore Agro-Farm Limited on Ijiri Road, near Owode-Egba, in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state, where Ismaila’s corpse was found. PUNCH Metro had quoted the deceased’s mother as alleging that Adekoya called her son early on Eid-el-Kabir day to come to the farm to collect his outstanding salary. The farm owner, however, denied this, saying he was in Lagos throughout that day and did not communicate with Ismaila. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, had explained that Adekoya was released because there was no evidence linking him with the death of the victim. Reacting to Adekoya’s release, a community leader in Owode-Egba, Chief Tajudeen Sodunke, frowned on the development, insisting that the owner of the farm could not claim ignorance of the victim’s death. The Ogunsola family appealed to both the state governor and the IG to come to their aid and ensure that justice was served. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com