Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government has a target of generating $500m annually from the monetisation of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide. A greenhouse gas, also known as GHG, is a gas that absorbs and emits radiant energy within the thermal infrared range. Greenhouse gases cause the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in earth’s atmosphere are water vapour, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and ozone. It was gathered that the government targets to generate revenue from the conversion of greenhouse gases for useful purposes, and was working to achieve this through the implementation of the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme. Our correspondent learnt that although the NGFCP’s primary objective was to end gas flaring by ensuring that flared gas was commercialised, the programme would also help in reducing greenhouse gases. The Programme Manager of the NGFCP in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Justice Derefaka, explained in a document that was obtained from the FMPR in Abuja on Friday that greenhouse gases could be monetised under an emission credit/carbon sale programme. He said, “Once operational, projects launched under the NCFCP will reduce Nigeria’s emissions by about 13 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, consistent with the President’s commitments to the reduction of greenhouse gases. “This is under the Paris Climate Change Agreement, which could also be monetised under an emission credits/carbon sale programme at a value range of $400m to $500m. The NGFCP is clearly a high-impact programme.” The FMPR stated that the NGFCP was initiated by the Federal Government in order to end gas flaring and reduce other emissions, particularly from the oil and gas sector that were counter-productive to the atmosphere in Nigeria. “The policy position of the President is that gas flaring is totally unacceptable. In this regard, the Federal Government initiated a number of actions to reaffirm its commitment to ending the practice of gas flaring in our oil fields,” it stated. The ministry said President Muhammadu Buhari ratified the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the Federal Government was a signatory to the Global Gas Flaring Partnership principles for global flare-out by 2030, while committing to a national flare-out target by year 2020. “Furthermore, in recognition that flared gas could be harnessed to stimulate economic growth, drive investments and provide jobs in oil producing communities and indeed for Nigerians through the utilisation of widely available innovative technologies, the Federal Executive Council in June 2016, approved the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme. The programme was launched by the former Minister of State on December 13, 2016,” the ministry explained. Derefaka explained that the design of the NGFCP was an innovative and scalable approach to gas flare reduction and was consistent with the climate change action plans anticipated in the Paris Climate Change Accords. In July, The PUNCH reported that the NGFCP had the potential of generating approximately $3.5bn of inward investment, while the potential Gross Domestic Product impact was estimated at $1bn per annum. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 