Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The family of Inspector Mark Ediale has demanded an independent investigation into the killing of three members of the Intelligence Response Team by soldiers in Taraba State. They said only an independent probe and justice would assuage their loss of two family members in the incident. Three policemen and a civilian were killed after they came under attack from soldiers while conveying a kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Wadume to the state command headquarters in Jalingo on August 6. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, Mark’s elder brother, Andrew identified the civilian who died in the attack as Olajide Owolabi, his nephew. READ ALSO: Beasts of No Nation: How Ikeja cantonment soldiers shot man, stabbed another on hospital bed —Police While condemning the killing of the policemen and his nephew, he also asked the Army to explain the reason for the attack as well as the release of the kidnap suspect by the soldiers. Andrew said, “The inglorious killing of our brother in Taraba State while on official duty for this country, which he has served for 16 years is unfortunate. “We vehemently speak against the heinous act carried out by the Nigerian Army; we demand a very thorough investigation not only by the Nigerian government but by an international and independent body as well. “Why was the kidnap kingpin released? The effort of the gallant police officers was not only compromised, but their lives were also equally cut short; we demand justice.” The aggrieved family described the incident as a conspiracy, insisting that the law must take its course against the perpetrators, noting that the blood of the slain men was crying for justice. Andrew added, “In spite of what they (police and military investigating panels) are doing, we want an independent investigation, it is not about compensation, we want justice to be done. “The civilian that was killed is my younger sister’s son, Olajide Owolabi. He has been working with them (IRT) for the past two years now.”