Maiharaji Altine, Gusau Zamfara State was among the most peaceful states in the county in the last decade. But later, it became the most horrendous as a result of banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling. A lot of people lost their lives; thousands of animals were carted away, many houses were burnt, while many people were kidnapped from 2012 to June this year when the situation was brought under control by the present Peoples Democratic Party-led administration in the state. The government under the leadership of Alhaji Bello Matawalle was able to achieve the feat by granting amnesty to repentant bandits. The genesis of the crisis Insecurity problem in the state started like a drama.  Earlier, it began as a dispute. It then grew to be a conflict. It grew into a conflict when the Fulani that are mostly herdsmen and Hausa that are farmers would engage in a fight which was normally resolved by either the authorities or the affected communities. The situation, however, became more horrifying when the vigilante group popularly known as Yan Sakai began to attack the Fulani they perceived as cattle rustlers. This ugly trend was left unattended to by the government until when the Fulani began to launch reprisals, killing, kidnapping people and burning the villages of their perceived enemies. When the state government realised that the situation was getting out of control, it sought the intervention of the Federal Government which led to the deployment of soldiers to handle the menace. This measure also contributed immensely to the escalation of the crisis. It actually turned it into full scale banditry because the Fulani on their part invited their counterparts from neighbouring countries of Niger, Mali, Burkina Faso, Chad and Cameroon to help them fight both the army and the vigilante group. When the invited Fulani mercenaries who came to help their fellow Fulani brothers found out that cattle rustling and kidnapping business activities were lucrative in the state, they decided to settle down. They made brisk business and refused to go back to their respective countries. Over 3,000 people lost to the crisis-Matawalle’s aide Beside the number of people killed or kidnapped, the houses or properties destroyed by the bandits, some sectors like agriculture, education and health also recorded setback. Since banditry reared its ugly head in the state, many farmers abandoned their farmlands; many schools and hospitals remained closed, while some major markets were also deserted. The Senior Special Assistant to Governor Matawalle on Security, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, said, “Nobody will tell you the exact figure of people killed during the period or the amount of money lost.  What we have on record is that over 3,000 people lost their lives, over 2,000 cars were burnt, while over 500 people paid ransom before they were released, excluding the 320 people who were set free as a result of the peace process.” Amnesty for repentant bandits Dauran, however, thanked God that banditry was now a thing of the past in the state as a result of the peace initiatives and the amnesty given to the repentant bandits by the state government. The effort of the state police commissioner, Alhaji Usman Nagogo, towards the peace initiatives which paved the way for the amnesty to the repentant Fulani was commendable. The police commissioner was posted to the state at the heat of the insecurity problems and immediately he assumed office, he commenced interactive meetings with the security stakeholders in the state on how to bring an end to banditry. He introduced a peace initiative programme between the bandits and the volunteer groups in conjunction with the state government. Nagogo also organised a meeting with the leaders of the vigilante group, Yan Sakai, and the Civilian JTF drawn from all the 14 local government areas of the state and all other militia groups associated with banditry. In that meeting, their attention was drawn to the fact that their activities had crippled the economy of the state. Emphasis was also placed on the need to maintain peace amongst themselves since they were related either by ancestral background or marriage. The Fulani leaders then promised to lay down their arms and embrace peace. They also urged the Fulani to feel free to visit any place in the state to do their pastoral and marketing activities. Since then, the police command has not received any report of attack on the Fulani. The market and grazing activities are going on smoothly according to plan. Nagogo then later invited all the Fulani cultural associations including the Miyetti Allah to a meeting where he told the Fulani that the state police command had put in place very formidable security architecture in the state to guarantee peace, security and prosperity. The Fulani immediately held a meeting after which they resolved to stop banditry and embraced peace. On realising that, peace was gradually returning to the state as a result of the commissioner’s peace initiative. Matawalle also promised to provide the Fulani with grazing reserves, roads and other laudable programmes that would finally make them to believe in the peace initiatives. To show that they have repented, the Fulani released all those they abducted while on its part, the state government granted amnesty to all of them.  Similarly, all those bandits arrested and sent to jail were released. The government also organised cultural festivals for them just to further cement the relationship. Peace has now returned to the state as people are now moving freely and farming activities have returned in earnest. But residents have expressed different opinions on the  amnesty given to the Fulani. Govt offer to Fulani too costly, peace may not last – Residents For instance, a university don, Prof. Kabiru Abdullahi, said most of the government’s policies and programmes were nicely planned but warned against poor implementation. He warned that the amnesty programme should not collapse because of the devastating effects it could have on the state. Also, a farmer, Mallam Shafiu Kurya, maintained that the amnesty arrangement had given them the opportunity to go to their farms without any fear of being killed or kidnapped. He, however, said he was not too sure whether the arrangement would be permanent. He, therefore, called on the government to fulfill all its promises to the Fulani so that the peace would be maintained, stressing that “if it is allowed to fail, the state will go back to square one.” A traditional ruler, who spoke to our reporter on condition of anonymity, described the peace initiative as a temporary measure. He said, “The government cannot sustain it because it is too expensive.” The monarch  said the programme might be a temporary measure, adding that even if Matawalle continued with the programme, another governor after him might discontinue it. He however admitted that the state was now enjoying relative peace. A prominent APC stalwart in the state, Alhaji Musa Sani, described the amnesty as a temporary measure, stressing that it will not last two years. He said, “It won’t last more than two years, because the government will one day become tired of funding the hugely expensive peace pact, while the Fulani who are already use to free money may go back to their atrocities.” A vigilante group member, Mallam Shehu Sani, said he was not too sure whether the state government would not behave like the former administration that also adopted a peace initiative but later abandoned the idea. A Fulani herdsman, Sahabi Musa, said they (Fulani) would not surrender their weapons until when they were quite sure that the government was really serious. According to him, the former governor, Alhaji Abdul-Aziz Yari, did the same thing and later abandoned it. In his reaction, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Security, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, believed that the amnesty initiative would bring a lasting solution to insecurity problems. He called on doubting Thomases to pray for its success. He explained that the state government had made adequate arrangements for sustaining the peace accord. Also, Nagogo expressed confidence that the amnesty was a permanent solution to banditry in the state. He said, “We were able to build trust and confidence between us and the bandits. They have come to believe that this process is not a deceit and one other issue is that the bandits themselves had been living in a terrible situation in the forest and were looking for a way out of their predicament. “These are the people that made millions in cattle rustling and other crimes but they couldn’t enjoy it because they were caged in the forest. So when they discovered absolute freedom without any condition, they were overjoyed and quickly surrendered and accepted the government’s offer of peace negotiations and total submission to the will of the government.” On whether the amnesty and the peace accord would not last, the police chief said, “The confidence the bandits have in the process and the familiarisation we have with them, coupled with the interaction we are having with them on a daily basis have removed any doubt that the process is not permanent.” “So, I will say that the peace in Zamfara is inimitable and cannot be changed.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   