Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has directed the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps to focus more on intelligence gathering, stating that its mandate only allowed it to support sister agencies. Aregbesola said that the intelligence the NSCDC could provide for other security agencies would assist them to perform better, stressing that the Corps was not the lead security agency in the country. The minister stated this on Thursday during a familiarisation visit to the headquarters of the NSCDC in Sauka, Abuja. He said, “Since you (NSCDC) are not the lead internal security agency, you must improve intelligence gathering. The early warning capacity your agency provides to others will help reduce threats. “My emphasis is on early warning part of security that will help sister agencies work better. Rather than being reactive, we will be proactive.” He said the hallmark of security was not the arrest of crisis but the elimination of threats, which he said the Corps would now focus on. Aregbesola, who said the NSCDC was the most effective agency in communal security, admonished the para-military service to take advantage of its closeness to the grassroots to gather intelligence for other security agencies in the country. He said the new security strategy was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s agenda to ensure security, improvement in the economy and fight against corruption in the country. READ ALSO: Canada is ‘stealing’ our young people! The former Osun State governor asked the Corps to adopt a new strategy to actualise the President’s target. He said, “We must adopt his (Buhari’s) slogan in the way that it’s best suited for us. So, we will adopt ‘SET’ in this ministry which means Security, Economic improvement and Transparency.” He assured that with this new method, there would be a significant improvement in security within the country in the shortest period. The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mrs. Georgina Ehuriah, said the minister was the best candidate to take the ministry to the next level.