Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Katsina State Police Command has arrested one Abba Ahmed, 18, for allegedly leading a gang of six to steal his father’s car. Ahmed, a resident of Goruba Road, Katsina, was arrested along with Shamsudeen Alhassan, 21; Salim Abubakar, 23; Sadiq Mohammed, 23; Bello Usman, 33, and Halliru Usman, 25, all of the Badarawa Quarter in Kaduna State. Police investigation revealed that Ahmed and his accomplices stole his father’s ash Mercedes Benz 180 car with number plate, Abuja ABC 670 LX. The suspects were allegedly caught at the point of negotiating the sale of the stolen vehicle. Members of the gang were also alleged to have stolen a black Honda Accord car with number plate, Gombe SHM 474 AA. The spokesman for the Katsina State Police Command, ASP Anas Gezawa, confirmed the development to Northern City News in Katsina on Thursday. He said members of the gang were arrested on August 17, 2019, while negotiating the sale of the two vehicles. Gezawa stated, “On August 17, 2019, based on a tip-off, the command succeeded in arresting the following suspects: Abba Ahmed, alias Virus, 18, of Goruba Road, Katsina; Shamsudeen Alhassan, alias Major, 21, of Badarawa Quarter, Kaduna, Kaduna State; Salim Abubakar, alias Horse, 23, of Badarawa Quarter, Kaduna, Kaduna State; Sadiq Mohammed, 23; Bello Usman, 33; and Halliru Usman, 25, all of the same address.” He added that the stolen vehicles had been recovered and the suspects were making useful statements to the police. In a related the development, the police also announced the arrest of Sanusi Hassan, 19, and Abba Samaila, 18, both of the Sabuwar Unguwa Quarter, Katsina, for allegedly burgling a shop at the Kofar Kaura roundabout by the Yahaya Madawaki Way, Katsina, from where they carted away N3m. The suspects also allegedly made away with recharge cards of MTN, Airtel and Glo, valued at N5m and a Tecno mobile phone. One Aminu Yusuf, a resident of the Katsina metropolis, was also arrested for allegedly receiving the stolen items. The police spokesman said the three were apprehended shortly after the shop owner, Alhaji Garba Shehu, reported the theft. He said the suspects confessed to committing the crime during interrogation. Gezawa added that the sum of N110,000 had so far been recovered from the suspects. “Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be prosecuted accordingly after the completion of investigation,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com