Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta Two suspected murderers of a motorcyclist have been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command while  they were fighting over the sharing formula of the proceeds of the sale of their victim’s motorcycle. The suspects, Lekan Odusote, 27, of the Sanga area of Ijebu-Ode, and Monday John, 22, from the Molipa Estate, Ijebu-Ode, were apprehended for killing a yet-to-be identified motorcyclist and stealing his motorcycle. The suspects allegedly lured the motorcyclist to an isolated spot in the Ikangba area of Obalende in Ijebu-Ode, where they killed him. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday, adding that the suspects buried the corpse in a shallow grave in an uncompleted building in the area and took possession of the victim’s motorcycle. Oyeyemi stated, “Having done with the motorcyclist, they took his motorcycle to Ijebu-Igbo, where they sold it for N120,000. “Luck, however, ran out on them when they were about to share the money as they could not agree on a particular sharing formula. This led to a serious altercation between them and some of their pronouncements arouse the suspicion of the people around, who informed the police. “Upon the receipt of the information, the DPO, Obalende Division, CSP Sunday Omonijo, dispatched detectives to arrest the two suspects. “On interrogation, they confessed to luring the motorcyclist to an isolated area, where they killed him and took possession of the motorcycle, which they sold, adding that the sharing formula of the proceeds caused a disagreement between them. “The suspects took the police to the uncompleted building, where the victim was buried, and the corpse was recovered and taken to the mortuary for post-mortem examination.” The PPRO said the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com