Anna Okon The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria has recommended that the Standards Organisation of Nigeria be returned to the ports for effective implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement. The President, MAN, Mansur Ahmed, said this during a meeting of the two organisations where they agreed to collaborate to curb illegal trade deals that AfCFTA might attract into the country. Although he noted that the agreement had a lot of opportunities for the Nigerian economy, Ahmed said it also came with potential threats and challenges. He said unscrupulous dealers in substandard goods might hide under the AfCFTA to bring fake and substandard goods into the country. To address this problem, he called on the present administration to empower SON in terms of human, technological and institutional capacity. Ahmed said even though SON had built capacity and incorporated new technology in its work, the challenges at the ports had increased, adding that with the signing of AfCFTA, the agency would be confronted with greater challenges. A statement from SON quoted him as saying, “I believe this creates a new demand for SON and other regulators to scale up their activities to prevent dumping. By doing this, we are not protecting the interest of only the Nigerian manufacturers, but African manufacturers at large. “It requires an even greater cooperation with stakeholders such as MAN. I believe this is what the agency is working on now and we will certainly support any effort in this regard. I think returning SON to the ports is something we should look at.” According to him, plans are ongoing to sign a comprehensive memorandum of understanding with SON which would enable both parties to work more extensively, while addressing issues confronting the manufacturing sector. He said, “The MoU would address all issues as they arise in a continuous basis because it is not something we can do once and forget about. We will be interfacing with SON continuously. Therefore, we need to find a framework which will be provided by the MoU that will enable us to resolve issues as they come without creating challenges to operators or regulators. “This is a meeting we should have had a very long time ago. The importance of this meeting to MAN is very clear where we now have a basis to understand the objectives and requirements of SON with regard to ensuring continuous quality of products not just for the ones manufactured locally, but also those imported. “We have had for too long substandard goods being imported into the country which does a lot of harm to our economy and specifically to our operations in the sector. I think with this kind of collaboration with the regulator and the industry, the importation of substandard goods would be brought down to the barest minimum. The Director General, SON, Osita Aboloma, said going forward, any importer who abused the permit given them to import raw materials and machinery for local production would be answerable to SON. He said, “Like every other sector, there are bound to be bad eggs who take advantage of loopholes by importing finished products instead of raw materials and machinery. We have also agreed that anybody that takes advantage of this window to import finished products instead of raw materials that we have given concession to will be answerable to us in their personal capacity. They will no longer be sheltered under the concession given to MAN.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 