Enyioha Opara, Minna The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the 2019 election in Niger State, Mahmood Sani, has regained his freedom after six days in the den of kidnappers. His freedom came after his relatives paid N4m as ransom to his abductors. Sani was kidnapped on the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway while he was on his way to Zamfara State. Recounting his ordeal to Northern City News in Minna on Tuesday, the politician said he was abducted on his way from Bida to Zamfara State. According to him, his abductors forced his driver to stop a few kilometres to Kaduna State and the two of them were marched into the forest by the gunmen. He said, “By the time we got to the Dikko junction, it was already getting dark, but I told my driver to drive to Kaduna so that we could spend the night there and proceed to Zamfara the next day. “Some kilometres to Kaduna, in-between two police checkpoints, some people forced us to stop and when we did, we were dragged out of the car and into the bush. “We spent six days in the bush before we were released after the payment of N4m. The ransom was initially set at N400m but after negotiation, it was beaten down to N4m, which was raised by my family, friends and well-wishers. “We were beaten. I still have bruises on my body. The experience was not palatable at all; it was a very bitter experience that I do not wish anybody to have. “Imagine seeing people brandishing AK-47 guns all the time and threatening to kill you if the ransom was not paid. The experience was very traumatic and I do not want to speak about it again.” Sani added that he was receiving treatment for the beating he received. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Muhammad Abubakar, said he was not aware of the matter, adding that the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway, where the incident happened, was not under the jurisdiction of the Niger State Police Command. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 