John Charles, Makurdi The leadership of the National Union of Benue State Students on Monday protested what it described as the poor handling of its National President, Comrade Smith Tyoonor, who was recently shot by unknown gunmen in Makurdi, capital of Benue State. Tyoonor, who is a 400 level student of Benue State University, was shot at the entrance of the Benue State University College of Health Sciences, also in Makurdi, on his way out of the campus. The spokesperson for the Benue State Police Command, Deputy Superintendent of Police Catherine Anene, had confirmed the incident. The protesting student unionists, who protested and shut down the gate of the university expressed their displeasure over what they described as the “poor handling” of their president at the State University Teaching Hospital in Makurdi. One of the student leaders, Robert Faga, told journalists that the university management failed to take the treatment of Tyoonor seriously. Faga said the management ought to have taken steps to secure the campus from criminals. He stressed that all the union wanted from the management was to transfer the victim to a more secure hospital. Dismissing the insinuation that the injured student leader was a cultist, he said the attack on might have been carried out or sponsored by members of a faction within the NUBESS and not cultists as believed. “We want the school management to take care of his treatment and security because he is not in a secure place,” he said, adding that the Benue State University Teaching Hospital, where Tyoonor is currently on admission, lacked proper security to guarantee his safety. The Head of the Information Unit of the university, Mr Tser Vanger, said  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academics, Prof Edward Omudu, had already addressed the protesting students. According to him, the university had already approved the transfer of the student leader to another hospital in Abuja. He added that the university was not resting on its oars to ensure the safety of every student on campus. In another development, the institution’s Dean of Students Affairs, Prof Joseph Kerker, said that Tyoonor was shot by two armed men on a motorcycle outside the campus at about 9pm. Kerker, who addressed journalists on the issue, said, “Two persons came on a motorcycle where they were holding a meeting opposite the University and a fracas seemed to have ensued.  The men inquired what was happening and then went a little distance and shot Tyoorno on the head. “I went to the hospital to see him, but heard a lot of complaints from the students and family members requesting that he should be transferred to another hospital in Abuja. I arranged for an ambulance from First Fertility Hospital, even as we learnt that Governor Samuel Ortom had already released an undisclosed sum of money for his treatment. “After conducting a test on the victim, the hospital authorities said he passed over 15 per cent, which indicated that he was in a stable condition. His condition had improved when I visited again on Sunday. “On the same Sunday night, the students became agitated, complaining of poor treatment and security of the victim. So, we decided to transfer him to Abuja based on security.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 