Booking.com is by far, the largest website in the world to online book accommodations. There are endless options for personalization that help to find places at the lowest prices and at the best value for money. Personally, this is my favorite website for booking hotels and apartments abroad (even more than Airbnb) and I would like to share with you why. Booking.com has some hidden gems that can save you a lot of money. After years of using Booking.com, we can say with certainty that it is one of the best hotels, apartments and guest rooms booking website in the world. We have gathered secret tips to find the cheapest and best places on the site and enjoy significant savings in money: Booking offers a large number of criteria to choose from that help to simplify the search process and more importantly, save you money. The obvious and first filter you should use is price. This way you will be able to match search results based on your budget without the temptation of booking more experience accommodation, just because it “popped up” in the search results. Filtering out-of-bugdet places will save you money. You can also filter places that offer breakfast in their basic pricing package. Depending on the destination, this can save you around $10 a day, per person which can be translated to $140 for a weekly accommodation for two. Filtering based on location, can save you a lot of money by choosing places close to city center and avoid paying for transportation to get where you want. Sometimes, just picking the right location and do the tour by walking will save a lot of money. Regardless to the main search results, Booking will offer you cheaper places to choose from. Scroll down until the “Filter by” widget ends and you will see “Check out these nearby destinations” section where you can save up to 50% from your original search criteria.  Another great feature that can help you in saving money is Booking’s map view.  It will show you all the hotels that fit your criteria around a given area. This way, great deals can be found only in a few minutes walking distance in discounted prices. By clicking on each of the blue points on the map, you will see quick information including the name of the hotel, the number of vacancies,  users rating, price and photos.  Although this tip is trivial, it has another angle that we wanted to tell you about.  Hotels with a rating of 8+ are considered good when the really good ones are rated 9+. However, sometimes, if you have several options that meet your criteria, you should check the reasons for the different rating. Putting aside the final review rating, you can find details of the rating that includes location, cleanliness, service, facilities and more. Sometimes, hotels that are considered good, get a relatively low score for a location because they are far from the center or from a nearby train station. The choice of such a hotel can increase the price of the trip due to the the cost of additional transportation required on a daily basis. This alone can save you a lot of money on your next trip.