Prophet (Dr.) S.K. Abiara Prophet & Global Evangelist President, Abiara Divine Foundation I like to use this medium to congratulate State Governors, all the appointed Ministers, Senators, Honorable of the House of Representatives, Honorable of the House of Assemblies members, The State Commissioners, Local Governments Chairmen, Counselors and other political office holders on your recent appointment to the office. May the good Lord be with you in Jesus mighty name. It is important for you to understand that God ordained you before you were appointed by the people. Therefore, you must always acknowledge that it is through the grace of God that you were elected to be in these present positions. Do keep in mind that it was Nigeria people that elected you and not your family members. They voted for you because they believe you are credible,, reliable, competent, hard-working and knowledgeable. That is why people are so important you were elected to serve them, so do your best to make life more comfortable for the masses. On the other hand, God place you there so that you can take good care of the people that elected you. Therefore, you must proof to Nigerians that you truly possess all those qualities mentioned above by doing good works that will speak after your tenure. Please learn from and be guided by some of our past political leaders such as; the Late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe; Alhaji Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, and Nelson Mandela of South Africa, President George Washington and J.F. Kennedy of the United States of America. Jesus Christ came to the world more than 2000 years ago to save everybody. Whoever calls upon His Name irrespective of race, colour or belief, He saves. As political office holder, to who much is give much is require, you are to help everybody not only your family. Your families’ vote or ‘say’ could not have earned you your present position. Don’t turn to a semi-god that is inaccessible. Remember that you are God’s representative to the masses, “Minister means Messengers.” For this reason, you are to serve people, let your entire project include how to cater for the widows, fatherless, motherless, the poor and the less privilege people in your Constituencies. Embark on programmes that will alleviate the sufferings of the people and make them happy. Psalm 41:1-2 Blessed is he who considers the poor! The LORD delivers him in the day of trouble; The LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; thou dost not give him up to the will of his enemies. Deuteronomy 15:11 For the poor will never cease out of the land; therefore I command you, you shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in the land. You need to bear in mind that all your possessions belongs to God; the lands, Estates, fleet of cars even your money in safe-keep globally because no one will take anything along when death calls. Matthew 6: 19-23 “Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust consume and where thieves break in and steals, But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. “The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light; But if your eye Is not sound,  your whole body  will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! Nigerians are eagerly expectant for things to change for better so as leaders do not disappoint them. Prepare to help anyone that needs help. Make policies that will promote Nigeria economy and alleviate people’s suffering. Insecurity is a major issue that calls for critical attention; it is high time all our leaders put their heads together to completely stoop this menace. Our roads, education, health and power sectors must received urgent attention to make life easier for all Nigerians. It is what you do today that becomes history tomorrow. Try to have good history like those aforementioned above. Ecclesiastics 9:10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work or thought or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol, to which you are going. There is need to know that all eyes are on you especially during the plenary sessions. When you debate comport yourself responsibly in presentation and contribution, be cautious when you talk or handle sensitive matters. King Nebuchadnezzar and King Herod of the Bible that turned to Beast and eaten by worms respectively due to their arrogance and because they failed to acknowledge God. Daniel 4:33-34 Immediately the word has fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men, and  ate grass like an ox, and his body was  wet  with the  dew of heaven  till his hair grew  as long as  eagles’ feathers, and his nails  were like birds ‘ claws. At the  end of the  days I, Nebuchadnezzar lifted my eyes to heaven, and my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me,  and I blessed the Most high, and praised and honoured him who lives forever; for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to generation; Acts 12:23-24 And the people shouted, “The voice of a god, and not of man!” Immediately an angel of the Lord smote him, because he did not give God the glory; and he was eaten by worms and died. Psalm 13: 8-6 For though the LORD is high, he regards the lowly; but the haughty he knows from afar. Finally, don’t forget God that cares for you and gives you the privilege to assume that honorable position, honor him and move closer to him. Mark 8:36 For what does it profit a man, to gain the whole and forfeit his life? You will not lose your life in Jesus name. Thank you God bless you. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria. For prayers and counseling call; 0808 440 7312; 0810 064 9330, Email us: thetorchofgod@gmail.com    or skabiaraofciem@yahoo.co.uk  