huoma Chiedozie, Abuja Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, says the 2020 budget of the ministry will be ready by September in line with the presidential directive to return the budget to the January to December fiscal year cycle. Onu said this when he was welcomed by the members of  staff of the ministry on Wednesday. According to him, the ministry will endeavour to get its budget estimates ready so as to have a hitch-free defence before the National Assembly. “The budget for the ministry and agencies should be ready before two weeks. It is the most important priority for now,” he added. He also said that the ministry would channel its policies and programmes towards diversifying and growing the economy, as well as fighting corruption and insecurity. Onu, who was returned as minister of Science and Technology, having served in the same capacity in President Muhammadu Buhari’s first term, further spoke on the need to avoid duplication of duties between the ministry and its agencies. He promised to work harmoniously with the Minister of State in order to achieve a good result for the best interest of the country. Onu also charged the management to brace for more work and demanded their support and cooperation to take the ministry to greater heights. In a similar development, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning,  Mr Clement Agba, has pleaded with the staff of the ministry to work hard to ensure that the budget was ready by September. Speaking at a reception organised for him by the staff of the ministry, Agba disclosed that the ministry was given up until September to send the budget to the National Assembly. “Mr President had made it very clear to us, there is a whole lot of work to be done and he needs the budget to be before the National Assembly in September. “That means for this ministry, in particular, we do have a lot of work to do. The only way we can succeed is for us to work together,” he said. The Permanent Secretary at the ministry, Mr Ernest Umakhihe, while handing over the note from the former Minister of Budget and National Planning, Mr Udo Udoma, said the ministry helped to stabilise the Nigerian economy when it went into recession. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com