Nike Popoola Auldon Toys says it has signed a memorandum of understanding with Polesie, one of Europe’s biggest toy manufacturers, to retail and start assembling of high-quality toys that meet all international safety standards in Nigeria. With the partnership, which was sealed in Kobrin, Belarus, Polesie JV Limited would introduce its toys into the Nigerian market with Auldon Toys as country agent. A statement by the toy firm said the collaboration would also witness the launch of an ultramodern assembly plant that would eventually metamorphose into a full production plant in Nigeria. This plant, it said, would service other regional markets within Africa, a move expected to be mutually beneficial to all, going by the firms’ pedigree and individual commitment to first-rate quality toys. The Commercial Director, Polesie, Mr Vladimir Kivaka, said, “We are happy to be partnering Auldon Toys, a Nigerian wholly indigenous company that has over the years shown strong commitment to providing high quality toys to the Nigerian children. These core values of Auldon Toys fit ours and that is why everyone at Polesie is thrilled at this new venture.” He also said, “We have followed keenly Auldon’s steady rise and popularity as the leading Toys dealer within the West African sub-region and decided to partner with them in order to get our quality products into a flourishing market, though dominated by cheap Chinese toys that mostly do not meet international safety standards. “This venture will see us bring in our invaluable expertise which would see us set up a toy assembly plant for the purpose of producing toys locally and ultimately bring our production lines which will in the short term add to the value chain by creating employment and knowledge transfer to Nigeria.” The Chief Executive Officer, Auldon Toys, Mr Paul Orajiaka, acknowledged the strength and expertise Polesie was known for across Europe. He stated that a partnership with a major European toy manufacturer as Polesie would provide quality toys, provide skill acquisition and most importantly further expand Nigeria’s manufacturing sector by the time the local manufacturing phase would set in. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 