Olaide Oyelude, Katsina Two neighbours, Nasiru Musa, 35, and Ibrahim Abubakar, 27, have been remanded in prison custody for allegedly raping and impregnating a 26-year-old woman suffering mental illness in Katsina. The suspects, who were said to be the victim’s neighbours at Goya village in the Funtua Local Government Area of the state, are being prosecuted for allegedly taking advantage of her mental state to serially rape her from January 2019 until their arrest in July. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Lawal Bello, informed a Katsina Senior Magistrates’ Court presided over by Hajiya Fadile Dikko that the victim was six months pregnant as a result of the suspects’ actions. Trouble started for the suspects when the victim’s elder brother, Bello Hassan, reported a case of rape at the Central Police Station, Funtua, on July 7, 2019. Consequently, the two suspects were invited for questioning and both allegedly confessed to the crime. The police prosecutor said, “One Bello Hassan of Goya village, Funtua Local Government Area of Katsina State, reported at the Central Police Station, Funtua, that on different occasions, from the month of January 2019 till date, Nasiru Musa, 35, and Ibrahim Abubakar, 27, both of the same address, conspired, deceived and lured his 27-year-old younger sister, who is of an unsound mind, to different places in Goya village and had unlawful carnal knowledge of her several times. “As a result, she got pregnant, which is about six months old. During interrogation, you both confessed to having committed the alleged offences.” Musa and Abubakar were charged with criminal conspiracy and rape contrary to the provisions of sections 97 and 283 of the Penal Code Law. The prosecution asked for additional time for the police to conclude their investigation and continue with the matter. The presiding magistrate ordered that the suspects be remanded in prison custody until August 26, 2019, when the case is slated for mention. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com