Olusola Fabiyi, China It was with high expectations that 18 journalists from English-speaking African countries arrived China for about three weeks’ training. The breakdown of the journalists showed that four each are from South Sudan and Ghana, Ethiopia has five, Kenya two while Malawi, Nigeria and Seychelles have one representative each. The training,organised by the Research and Training Institute of the National Radio and Television Administration, China, makes this year’s journalists an addition to the 4,175 senior editors trained from 152 countries in the institute at December 2018. The training focuses mainly on development of new media and how traditional media can overcome new media threats. It also gives an insight into the basic situation of the Chinese media’s exchanges and cooperation with the world. Apart from these, it also covers ethics, management of stress and visits to CCTV and QTV headquarters, both in Quigdao, for on-the-spot teaching, introduction of the development of China Network Television in the new age by relevant experts and leaders. This is to avail the participants the rare opportunity of having a knowledge of the business of new media in China. The expectations of the reporters are not dashed as different lecturers take turns to give academic and practical exercises from their rich knowledge. But the event is not meant only about academic exercise. Other things caught the attention of the visiting journalists. One of such is the open selling and eating of scorpions by the Chinese. They move haphazardly in the three containers where they are caged. Of different sizes, but probably of the same proportion of venom, the scorpions are steered with two sticks by a cheerful lady who gave her name only as Juci. She uses elastic plastic to hold the transparent cover preventing the fearful creatures from escaping. Juci uses the stick to pick any of the scorpions that catches the attention of buyers. Welcome to Baolong Mall. Located along Qingshan Road, Licang District, Quingdao, China, the hall houses different shops and several assorted wares and food items. Outside the mall is an expansive courtyard. Every evening, children and adults gather to take part in different volunteer sporting activities, including soccer, reserved for them. The kids also take part mostly in handball and volleyball, while the aged men and young ladies, joyfully seek pleasure in aerobics. Dressed in sporting uniforms and canvass of different shapes and brands, old adults stylishly but smartly move their bodies to music oozing out of small size speakers placed at strategic places around them. While there are spectators watching a live, free show, there are also those who hawk their wares around the ‘mini stadium’. Not too far from them is where Juci, the scorpion seller, plying her trade. Every evening, she sauntered into the walkway leading to the mall. There, she spreads her ‘goods’, with a small light coming from her phone and patiently waiting for her faithful customers. Unlike others who sell clothes, children playing tools, food items and fried potatoes and many others, Juci’s customers are not as many. But they are loyal to the delicacy of their choice. Juci supplies her customers a finished product. How? By her side are two cups, inside which she dips the scorpions when picked by the customers. She uses the two sticks serving as a scissors with which she grabs the deadly animals. From here, they are transferred to the pot, which is filled with oil which she fries the delicacy for her ever-joyous customers. The pot is inside a small container, like the small stove on which it is roasted, to prevent the breeze from disturbing the cooking. Juci, who was with her husband when our correspondent accosted her, told through an interpreter that the prices of the scorpions depend on their sizes. For example, there are those which by their sizes are sold at higher prices than others. “This, (pointing to one of the containers), “three is for 10 yuan, that one (pointing to another), four is for 10 yuan. Make she cook for you,?” she asked through the interpreter. Our correspondent shook his head. Another interpreter Lz Shan explained that there is collagen in scorpions and that there are lots of places in China “where this kind of bug is eaten.” Shan, who is married with a son said, “Though I don’t eat scorpions, but those who eat it claim that they derive a lot of benefits from it. These include physical fitness and detoxification. In China, this is a drop of traditional Chinese medicine. Scorpions are got mainly from the night markets.” In China, scorpions are not the only delicacy, the nation also guides its culture jealously and protects its citizens religiously. For example, its two-children per family policy is strictly adhered to. Explaining the reason behind this, an associate professor at the Literature College of Qingdao University, Zhai Jingyun, said the policy was meant to protect the interests of the citizens and also raise their standards of living. Jingyn, one of the lecturers that taught the visiting journalists different topics, said, “The policy was because we had huge population and we needed to increase the per capital growth of the country. After year 2016 or so, it was changed to two children per family. It has remained so.” Another university don, Wang Chunyun of Theory Department at the same university, also spoke on the tendency and expectations of the development of media convergence in the new media age of communication. Data provided by the lecturer put the number of Internet users for instant messages at 720, 230,00 while those who rely on online news are 646,890,000 people. For others, he said, “there are significant growth in the number of those who also rely on online for searching video, shopping, paying, gaming.’’ Ning Yanje of China Media Group further attested to the level of awareness in the country when he spoke on “Internet marketing as a valuable knowledge of community marketing.” He said that the nation practices cashless banking, nothing that though security is tight, even if there are porous areas, there will be no money to steal. He said, “China is a cashless society. We use our phones to pay for everything. That is why we are always with our phones. Because we use the phones to pay, there is no money for anyone to steal. We operate mobile banking. From shops to markets and even transportation, the phones do the job.” As much as the Chinese work hard, so they equally enjoy good side of life. A trip to Dengzhou Street, Quingdao District reveals this. As you drive into the area, the aroma of barley and wheat welcome you. This is the home of the popular Tsingtao Beer, where Li Shousheng is in charge of innovative marketing. Here, many shops have been permanently decorated with flowers and colourful canopies, chairs and tables. Beautiful servers await the patrons who relish the liquid. After all, the Chinese say beer is proof that the earth rewards the industrious. However, Prof. He Guangming of Business College of Qingdao University, warns that beer consumption will neither give a stress-free life nor reduce it when a man is under intense pressure. He stated this while giving a lecture under the topic “Grow a positive attitude, control the pressure actively” on Friday. He advised those undergoing street to approach it through systematic and parasythematic means. “Those who resort to beer or alcohol to control stress or bad mood will return to it or be worse for it after the alcohol must have cleared from their eyes,” he added. Guangming also called on journalists to learn to engage in physical and mental exercises, learn new knowledge including writing of books, to reduce stress which he said their job demands daily.