Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management of Nigeria has said the manipulation of the public procurement process is making the country to lose 30 per cent of its resources. It called on the Federal Government to quickly reverse the trend by constituting the National Council on Procurement that will come up with policies in line with international best practices. The President, CIPSMN, Alhaji Ado Jibrin said these on Saturday in Abuja at the institute’s annual conference. The theme of the conference was “Ensuring compliance with statutory provision of the Public Procurement Act 2007 and leveraging on procurement professionalism and best practices for the growth of Nigerian economy.” READ ALSO: Who is a Nigerian? Twitter users ask as Lagos govt apprehends Okada riders from Jigawa Jibrin said public procurement is deliberately manipulated especially in public services in order to benefit a few individuals. He stated that procurement professionals needed to be more involved in procurement affairs of any organization. He said “Nigeria is losing a lot of money. If not an exaggeration, I can say at least 30 per cent of any amount for procurement.” “Procurement is deliberately manipulated and circumvented especially in the public services to the benefit a few individuals. “There is no gainsaying that some people are hell-bent on annihilating purchasing/ procurement profession and professionalism in order to continue with the mess. “Let all the professionals be at the affairs of the procurement section. We don’t mind if there are other people from other professions that have an interest in procurement. Let them come back to the institute, let them enrol, let them be professionals then they can be anywhere.” On the establishment of the national council of procurement, the president of the institute said that government had yet to respond to several requests made by the institute on it. He said “The institute had written and had several times reminded the government that there is need to establish the national council of procurement because that is the base. “If you establish the council, the council will checkmate all the problems and they would come out with policies.”