Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Osun State Government on Thursday asked the Board of Internal Revenue Service to come up with strategies that would bring more people into the tax net, thereby increasing the revenue coming into the government’s coffers. Supervisor for Finance and Commerce, Mr Bola Oyebamiji, who stated this during a weekly meeting of the state finance team in Osogbo, also told the revenue collectors that all that was due to government in terms of revenue should be collected and remitted promptly. He therefore directed that henceforth, the Internal Revenue Service should monitor more closely every revenue generating agency of government in order to avoid revenue leakage. Oyebamiji said, “I don’t want us to relent on the move to continue to block financial leakage and boost our revenue as a state. We are not there yet; we need to continue to work hard to boost our revenue. We are not where we want to be yet; there is still a lot of ground to cover. “The way forward is to commercialise government activities. Don’t get me wrong. It is different from privatising it. In my opinion, this is the only way for us to move forward as a state. As individuals and as stakeholders in the Osun project, we need to take away sentiments from governance and begin to do things the right way. “If we take away sentiments from governance, we will get the revenue that is due to the state. Days of sitting back are long gone. We must take over revenue-generating activities from ministries, departments and agencies that are still involved in collecting revenue for the state. “The Osun Internal Revenue Service is the only body under the law that is saddled with the responsibility of collecting taxes and other levies on behalf of the state. I believe we can generate more revenue than what we currently do; we just need to tie some loose ends.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 