The indigenes of Upake community in the Ajaokuta Local Government Area of Kogi State have commended the Federal Government for the installation of an 80-kilowatt solar hybrid mini-grid power plant in the community. The Federal Government, through the Rural Electrification Agency, inaugurated on Monday the mini-grid, to which 496 residential and commercial buildings would be connected, according to a statement. Kogi State Governor, Mr Yahaya Bello, commended the Federal Government, the REA and the private developer for their commitment to the project. He said, “The people of Kogi State will do our best to support this project to ensure greater success and sustainability. Its impact goes beyond improving quality access to stable electricity. It has also provided a total of 32 jobs for our indigenes and will create more during the expansion of this project. We look forward to witnessing the Federal Government replicate similar projects that will improve the quality of life of Nigerians.” The Senator representing Kogi Central, Mr Yakubu Oseni, said the solar project would benefit members of his constituency. He said, “Our women will be able to process their cassava in a less stressful manner and our fishermen can preserve their products now that there is reliable electricity. I believe that the quality of lives in Upake community will be improved because of this project and I look forward to seeing similar projects being installed in other communities under my leadership.” The Community Head, the Ananyiwa of Upake, His Royal Highness Ibrahim Eneye, also commended the Federal Government for the completion of the project. He said, “I stand here representing the people of our dear community. Just as you assured us of the plans to complete this project from the first day you visited us, I want to assure you that we will work with the developer to make sure that no harm will come to this project. It is our mini-grid and we will protect it as our property.” The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Rural Electrification Agency, Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi, reiterated the commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in fulfilling its mandate to ensure electricity access for Nigerians. She said, “More families and businesses in Upake will have access to clean, sustainable and reliable electricity from the sun. This enhances productivity and provides jobs in Upake.” The REA is an agency of the Federal Government tasked with the electrification of unserved and underserved communities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 