Adedamola Edun, 30, is the team leader at Twelve02 Media, a multimedia and publishing company. He speaks with DAVID OLADUNJOYE on how he runs the business As the Team Leader at Twelve02 Media, what are your duties? I am also the lead editor of Simple Magazine, an entertainment and lifestyle publication based in Lagos. I am pro-Nigeria to the core. I believe in patience and progress. What are your educational qualifications? I hold a National Diploma in Computer Science from the Lagos City Polytechnic and a Bachelor in Public Administration from the University of Lagos respectively. What led to the creation of Twelve02 Media? Twelve02 Media was birthed out of the need to incorporate the passion I had about the entertainment and media industries, and to corporately serve the people in the media sphere. How would you describe the initiative? It is a full-service multimedia organisation that deals in brand development, events management, advertising, marketing, talent management and publishing. It is the parent company of Simple Magazine, Simple TV, and more brands still in creation stage. What are the highlights of running the initiative so far? There have been such highlights over the years, but I consider being entrusted by big brands and agencies to be a channel of exposure for their brands, something to be happy about. There’s also that satisfaction around the media sphere when people refer others to us for even projects that are not in our area of core expertise, simply because of the unconditional trust they have in us. This is despite the fact that we are a growing agency. What are some of the challenges you have encountered and how have you been able to overcome them? There have been several challenges, including raising capital, and having people that believe in what we do, or see things from our perspective. However, I believe that challenges are part of the growth process of being a successful entrepreneur and the only way to overcome them is to never give up on one’s dreams. Have you been able to accomplish the purpose for its establishment? Well, I wouldn’t say the purpose has been fully accomplished but as we all know, it’s a gradual process to achieve greater things. And, the process is a huge part of success. In what ways does Twelve02 Media empower youths? We try to help people discover their calling by assisting them to create their brands, so they can be responsible for themselves too. What do you love most about what you do? I love the fact that I can create solutions for other people’s problems. It is eureka! Have you ever worked for any company? Not really in a fulltime capacity. I’ve always been a freelance person– solving people’s problems along the way. Right from high school, I had always known that I would become an entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship, to me, is more of a journey. I would say it was embedded in my upbringing, coupled with the fact that I have always wanted to create my own path and cements my status. What is your philosophy of life? Life is as important as you think it. It’s all about what you make out of it. If you were not into showbiz and there was no Twelve02 Media, what could you have been doing now? I would probably be in the IT world, solving digital problems. What advice do you have for youths who want to be successful? Regardless of whatever you study in school, look into having or learning a skill. Above all, always be a problem solver. What do you think is the major problem of today’s youths, which stops them from fulfilling their dreams? Firstly, the enabling environment, which is a very known epistle already. Also, the upbringing and orientation of our youths. You can’t completely separate the path of our young people from their origins and association. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 