Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Thursday, inaugurated the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers chaired by the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi. The inauguration took place at the Governor’s Office just as 16 prominent traditional rulers, who are members of the Pelupelu Obas also known as Alademerindinlogun, who had opposed Oba Alabi’s appointment as chairman by the governor, made good their promise not to attend his inauguration. The 16 monarchs, had filed a suit before an Ado Ekiti High Court to challenge Oba Alabi’s appointment, asking the court to declare whether it was right for the governor to have appointed a traditional ruler allegedly outside the Alademerindinlogun as chairman of the council. READ ALSO: Ekiti seals four hospitals, cautions residents against quacks Fayemi, while inaugurating the traditional council at the occasion attended by monarchs under the aegis of Majority of Obas in Ekiti Land, charged the chairman to unite all traditional rulers in the state with the aim of moving the state to higher heights. The governor charged Alabi, “You must ensure that you unite the traditional institution and eschew baseless rivalry. Don’t be used by fifth columnists that do not understand that elections are over in Ekiti. Don’t also allow unnecessary communal clashes that could destabilise the state. “Ekiti has been lucky since its creation. Whatever we must have achieved or got in life is an act of God who knows the end from the beginning”, he said. Fayemi, who tasked the traditional rulers on the resolution of the insecurity in the Southwest and indeed the nation, charged them “to cooperate with government and be at the forefront of the fight against anti-social behaviour because what we need to promote development is peace. “I want you to be protectors of your people as custodians of culture and tradition in your domains. Despite modernity, you remain the rallying point and you will ever remain relevant. I want to appreciate the immediate past council for putting in their best in piloting the affairs of the council. I have no doubt that the new council will collaborate with government for more development in our state,” Fayemi said. Oba Alabi, who thanked Fayemi for counting him worthy for the appointment, assured that his council would not shirk its responsibilities in ensuring that government delivered the goodies of democracy to the people. The chairman, who said the honour was for all monarchs in the state said, “I invite all our Kabiyesis to join hands with me and be active in our joint efforts to continue moving our state forward.”