Tony Okafor, Awka Youths of Mkpu-Nando in the Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State, on Tuesday, staged a protest against their monarch, Igwe Alex Edozieuno, over the alleged misappropriation of N150m land proceeds belonging to the community. Displaying placards with various inscriptions, the youth and women asked the monarch to produce the missing money to avoid further rage. Some of the inscriptions on the placards read, ‘He must refund our money’, ‘We don’t need this kind of monarch again’, ‘This Igwe should be arrested and prosecuted’, ‘Governor Willie Obiano come and rescue’. They marched on the Ama Umuawulu village square and other roads in the community, including the frontage of the monarch’s palace singing uncomplimentary songs about the Igwe. Security operatives, however, prevented the crowd of about 400 persons, from entering the monarch’s compound. The leader of the protesters, Ifeanyi Iloakasia, a lawyer, said the state government should order the monarch to refund the money to the community. He said the N150m was the compensation the state government paid to the community for its acquired land. Iloakasia stated, “If the government fails to intervene and retrieve the money from Igwe, we will not have any option but to resort to self-help. “The monarch and the estate valuer are in an unholy alliance to rip off the Mkpunando community and we will not allow this to happen in our place. “The total money paid to the community by the government was N150m, while the commission was N15m for the facilitators and till date, we have not received anything from the Igwe.” When contacted on the telephone, Edozieuno described the protesters as liars, adding that he did not owe anybody or group. READ ALSO: Nigeria, a laughing stock in oil business — Petroleum minister He said the main issue for the protesters’ action was not the money, but because he defeated the family of the initiators during the kingship contest. The Igwe stated, “Since then, some of them have refused to give up. “They know that I am a rich man that I have no reason to touch their money. I made money when I was 20 years old and bought my first car at that age also. Their allegations hold no water.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com