’Femi Asu Airborne Oil & Gas says it has secured a contract with Addax Petroleum to deliver two gas lift jumpers in Nigeria. The Netherlands-headquartered firm said this would result in its thermoplastic composite pipeline products becoming a permanent application in West Africa for the first time. It said it would supply two 180-metre-long TCP jumpers to support the Sinopec subsidiary’s operations in the Okwori field, off the coast of Nigeria, within an eight-week time frame. According to a statement, this is the first time one of its TCP technologies has been ordered through its newly launched ‘Jumper on Demand’ service, which sees long lengths of its jumpers being manufactured, prepared with dedicated end-fittings and held in stock. “This allows for a significantly improved turnaround of pipe supply, termination and installation in any location. The scope of work marks the second order for its TCP products in Nigeria this year. The first was for a TCP Jumper Spool, which is expected to be deployed by a super major in the region later in the year,” it said. TCP, according to the statement, is a non-conductive, non-corrosive flexible pipe that can be installed subsea easily through subsea pallet or off the back of a vessel from a reel, avoiding expensive metrology and reducing the project throughput time. Airborne Oil & Gas said its TCP products could be terminated in the field in a matter of hours, providing flexibility and de-risking the project schedule. The Technical Advisor, Addax, Tony Kirkby, said, “The flexibility and ease of re-termination makes the TCP a great product for gas lift and other applications within Addax in Nigeria. “It allows us to cut pipe to length and install quickly, thereby ensuring that production is maintained with minimum disruption.” The Vice-President for Europe and Africa, Airborne Oil & Gas, Paul McCafferty, said the scope of work for Addax involved the delivery of two TCP jumpers within a very short time frame. “Throughout this project, we look forward to further developing our client relationship while delivering our effective high-quality TCP technology to support their future pipeline needs,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com