Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday assured investors that it had put in place adequate mechanisms to protect their investments in the capital market. The commission said as the apex regulator of the capital, it was currently implementing various initiatives under its 10-year capital market master plan to protect investors. The Acting Director-General, SEC, Mary Uduk, said these in Abuja during an enlightenment forum for the military, paramilitary and anti-graft personnel. She said as one who had experienced the negative impact of investing in a Ponzi scheme, the commission under her leadership would continue to caution against investing in fraudulent schemes that appear mouth-watering. She gave some of the initiative as recapitalisation, electronic dividend management system, dematerialisation, and direct cash settlement among others. She said, “The agenda for this outreach is to enlighten us about the capital market and the attendant benefits while also cautioning us against investing in fraudulent schemes that appear mouth-watering but are actually not capital market products. “As the saying goes, ‘all that glitters is not gold.’ There is no doubt in my mind that the capital market presents a good platform for addressing many of Nigeria’s economic challenges. “On our part as regulator, we shall continue to introduce new ideas and policies towards developing and regulating capital market that is dynamic, fair, transparent and efficient to contribute to the nation’s economic development.” She also said that the commission had established a Complaint Management Framework to address the complaints of capital market investors. Uduk said the initiative would help investors lay their complaints through the right channel and also assist the regulator in addressing the issues. The Director, Market Development Department, SEC, Mr Edward Okolo, said the forum would provide participants with better knowledge on how to manage their finances and also recognise fraudulent financial schemes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   