Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has arrested three suspects for involvement in Internet-based fraudulent activities in the state. The suspects are Emmanuel Akinlosotu, Giftency Oshafa and Bella Avwerosuo. It was gathered that Oshafa and Avwerosuo are students of the University of Benin, Edo State. Parading the suspects at the headquarters of the command in Akure on Tuesday, the state Commandant of the corps, Mrs Christiana Abiakam-Omanu, said the NSCDC arrested many suspects for various crimes such as cyber fraud, threat to life, obtaining by false pretences, cultism and other activities, but only the three were paraded. The commandant said, “Our intelligence gathering revealed that a syndicate of Nigerians in Oman were suspected to have defrauded the victims by false pretences. “An accomplice to the suspect based in Nigeria has been arrested, while others are being trailed by our men. Currently, efforts are being made to repatriate the notorious foreign-based suspects, Oladipupo Paulina and Shipe Alaba. “Another dangerous syndicate involved in Internet love scam targeting middle-aged women has been arrested by our specially-trained officers. University undergraduate members of the gang, Giftency Oshafa and Bella Avwerosuo, have been arrested and are assisting with our investigation. “So far, we have deduced from our investigation that numerous bank accounts are being used by the syndicate and the accounts are undergoing forensic analysis.” Abiakam-Omanu added that members of another gang, who pose as traditionalists performing money rituals for their victims, were in custody. “They had swindled their victims of huge sums of money and continued to blackmail them,” she stated. The NSCDC boss said the suspects would be charged at the end of the ongoing investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 