Etim Ekpimah Residents of Satellite Town in the Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos State have threatened to take the case of the degradation and pollution of their environment to the United Nations body responsible for looking into human rights violations. They stated that if the Federal Government did not reconsider its decision to issue new licences for the establishment of tank farms in the area, they would have no other option but to approach the UN. The Chairman of the Satellite Town Forum, Mr Governor Imitini, said on the average, about 500 trucks ply the single lane road, which was constructed for residential purposes, daily. According to him, the development has led to the indiscriminate parking of trucks in the area as well as deaths in accidents, flooding, gridlock and the collapse of the road. Imitini said this during the stakeholders’ meeting between the residents, tank farm operators and government agencies on Tuesday. He stated, “The government should not give approval for additional tank farms in Ijegun-Egba. The situation here is terrible. Because of the proliferation of tank farms in the area, many people have relocated from our community as their houses have been submerged by flood. “If the Federal Government insists and gives approval for more tank farms, we may resort to taking our case to the human rights violation arm of the United Nations. We can only allow the existing tank farms to remain here for five more years.” The Lagos State Government had promised the residents of Satellite Town that it would not allow the establishment of other tank farms in the area. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of the Environment, Mr Biodun Bamgboye, had made the promise when the residents met him in his office last month. But after the promise, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu reportedly gave approval for the establishment of two tank farms in the area. The Zonal Secretary, Petroleum Tanker Drivers arm of the Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, Mr Abioye Lawal, blamed the Federal Government for not fixing roads throughout the country. He said tank farms and truck terminals in Satellite Town would not have been an issue if the government had fixed the roads and constructed alternative roads before approving the location of oil depots in the area. Lawal added that tanker drivers were the most affected by the poor roads, adding that they were not happy because many members of the union had perished as a result of bad roads. He said, “We the tanker drivers are also law-abiding citizens of this country. We are the people who suffer the most from the poor road networks while making money for all Nigerians. “Throughout the country, the roads are bad. You may be surprised that in Satellite Town, most of those potholes were filled by our members. It is not our duty to fix roads. That is the little we can do to ease congestion and breakdown of vehicles in the area.” The Chairman, Chipet International Limited, Mr Peter Chinedu, said he had given more than 12 landlords, whose houses were submerged by flood, money to build new houses on higher grounds. He stated that many of them built new houses in Festac Town and would not tell what efforts he and others had made to alleviate their suffering. It was gathered that two plots of land had been acquired to establish a fire station near the tank farms for use in the events of fire outbreaks. The Manager, Pollution, Nigerian Ports Authority, Mr Olumide Onamuti, said the agency was working on a blueprint on how the Apapa gridlock could be solved and also ease the tension in Satellite Town. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 