Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta Three members of a vigilante group in Ogun State have been arrested by men of the police for allegedly robbing a hotel in Ijebu-Igbo and killing a 200-level student of the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ahmed Obisanwo. The suspects were paraded on Wednesday by the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, at the Police Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, the state capital. Makama said the three suspects; Idowu Ayodele, 53, Segun Ogunsanwo, 53, and Akeem Salisu, 55, would face murder charge before a competent court. Makama also added that his men have recovered weapons including four guns from the suspects who claimed to be part of a local community security group in the state. He further added that the suspects had invaded a hotel in Ijebu-Igbo area of the State on the 8th of August this year and allegedly robbed the people of their valuables and later abducted two young men. According to Makama, these suspects went into a hotel and told everyone to lie down, dispossessing them of their valuables. “They seized two people and didn’t return them. After a while, one of them came back and said he had escaped. When we asked him about the second person he was abducted with, he said, he was dead. It is six weeks today, that person has not returned.” Makama further explained that the command received a complaint which prompted his men to investigate the matter. According to him,  we worked on that which led to the arrest of these people and the recovery of these weapons. “On further interrogation, they said the other person that was taken had been killed. They said he had been thrown into a river. We asked them to identify the river so we can go there and conduct a search and recover his remains. “One of them claims to be a member of safe corps but the boss has outrightly denied that. One of the weapons is painted in police color. They will be made to face the full wrath of the law,” he said. But one of the suspects, Akeem Salisu, who spoke with newsmen denied killing Obisanwo. He said the group was commissioned by the community to rid it of cultists and thugs. Salisu added that his group usually arrests cultists and thugs in the community and hands them over at the Police Station in order to ensure peace and security in the area. Also speaking with newsmen, Ayodele, who is the head of the vigilance group, said his group only invaded a hotel where the suspected cultists were billed to celebrate their annual festival in Ijebu – Igbo.