Feyisayo Popoola The Securities and Exchange Commission has organised a one-day enlightenment outreach for officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces, the Nigeria Police Force and other para-military agencies on the investment initiatives in the capital market and how to protect their sundry investments. SEC said in a statement on Thursday that the initiative was in a bid to step up its financial literacy and investor education drive. It said the event, which was tagged ‘A day with investors’, held at the SEC head office in Abuja on Thursday. The acting Director-General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, in her address, said the purpose of the engagement was to enlighten them about the capital market and some of the initiatives being undertaken by the commission, particularly, those that affected them as investors. She said, “Investor education in the capital market is one of our key strategies to foster investor engagement on financial planning and decision-making. It also creates awareness about Ponzi schemes and other sharp practices, which we want them to avoid. “While some of us will invest for today, most, I believe, will take the benefits deep into their retirement years when the energy to work is lost but the benefits of investments will continue to trickle in, to ensure relative financial security even at old age.” Uduk stated that SEC, as the regulator of the capital market, would continue to introduce new ideas and policies towards developing and regulating a capital market that was dynamic, fair, transparent and efficient, to contribute to the nation’s economic development. She noted that the commission was making efforts at addressing financial literacy and empowerment gaps within the society, adding that this was expressed in the various financial inclusion and literacy initiatives being undertaken in collaboration with other stakeholders. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   