Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Hyundai says it is offering a glimpse of how it envisages the future in-car experience under a new concept called ‘Style Set Free’. The automaker explained that with ‘Style Set Free’, it had demonstrated its customer-centric approach to future mobility, adding that cars could become extensions of living spaces so that customers would be able to personalise their vehicles as they did their homes. The automaker also said it would showcase the next steps of its ‘Style Set Free’ concept at the 2019 Frankfurt International Motor Show in September. “Once a simple means of transport to allow people to get from one place to another, the concept of the car is rapidly changing as the boundaries between our lives and automobiles intertwine. Under the banner ‘Style Set Free’, Hyundai Motor illustrates its innovative vision of how cars of the future will become individualised living spaces,” the automaker said. According to Hyundai, people already personalise their living spaces with a multitude of gadgets and different forms of technology in line with their own tastes and sensibilities. It added that soon, the same could be done with cars as well, as ‘Style Set Free’ would be creating a perfect space inside one’s car, and might ask what it would take to create such a space. The automaker said with the initiative, it would consider how future vehicles would offer customers more freedom to design their cars in a way similar to how people designed their homes. “The company envisions that interiors will be customisable with organic materials,” it added. The Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Hyundai Motor Company, Wonhong Cho, said in the future, self-driving technology in electrified vehicles would eliminate the need for drivers. He stated that this would not be a luxury, but an absolute necessity, adding that ‘Style Set Free’ aimed to provide a unique in-car experience that no other automakers had offered so far, but one that customers had been looking for. Cho explained that the initiative was based on future automotive developments, such as autonomous driving, and would allow users to fully customise and upgrade their driving environment to create their own life space inside their vehicle through upgradeable products and services. “In the future, Hyundai intends to build a self-customising marketplace similar to an app store. Here, customers will have the freedom to select software and hardware for their vehicles to upgrade them according to their needs. With ‘Style Set Free’, the company demonstrates its customer-centric approach to future mobility,” he said. According to him, Hyundai will leverage data generated from smart vehicles to launch an open ecosystem that enables a host of the ICT subsystems to create a structural flow of public data transmission between vehicles and the environment in which vehicles operate. This, Cho said, would facilitate the widespread adoption of connected cars, further cementing Hyundai’s role as a leader in the future mobility field. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   