Samuel Awoyinfa The Sterling Bank will in the first week of September bring together in a summit in Abuja policy makers, development agencies, international financial institutions, and value chain players in agriculture on the continent. The international summit with the theme, ‘Agriculture – Your piece of the trillion-dollar economy’ according to the organisers, seeks the actualisation of the $1tn African agribusiness economy dream by 2030. The bank stated that it was moved to organise the summit because more than 50 per cent of the world’s fertile and unused land estimated at 450 million hectares was in Africa, yet agriculture productivity was still low. Group Head, Agriculture Finance and Solid Minerals, Sterling Bank, Bukola Awosanya, said, “Agriculture productivity in Africa is low and a source of concern in the sector that accounts for 60 per cent of the continent’s labour force and 75 per cent of its domestic trade. “And the creation of a single African market with over 1.2 billion people through the African Continental Free Trade Agreement treaty is not without possible adverse impact on the sector’s growth which calls for a pan-African agriculture summit.’’ She added that the bank had been at the forefront of Nigeria’s agricultural transformation agenda through focus on value chains where the country had comparative advantage. Awosanya noted that this market-led transformation driven by strategic partnerships would stimulate investment, create new jobs, wealth and food security. She added that it was imperative that the same model was adopted across the 54 countries that now make up the single African market to improve productivity, guarantee food security and ensure a future of shared prosperity for all Africans. According to her, the international summit will foster an integrated approach to agricultural value chain transformation on the continent while also facilitating intra-African trade. She said it would also unveil current agricultural trends, innovations and opportunities for private and public-sector investment and participation in Africa. Last year, Sterling Bank brought together smallholder farmers, input suppliers, agro processing entrepreneurs, development finance agencies, policy makers and captains of industry through a technical workshop on the agriculture value chain in Abuja. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com