Patrick Odey, Uyo The Justice A. M. Yakubu-led governorship election petition tribunal sitting in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on Wednesday overruled the objection of the All Progressives Congress and its governorship candidate in the state, Nsima Ekere, seeking to prevent subpoenaed witnesses from giving evidence in court. The tribunal had, on Wednesday, subpoenaed a former chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in the state, Mr Patrick Albert, and the state Chairman of the Arewa People’s Assembly, Emmanuel Ogbole, to appear in court as witnesses. The APC and Ekere, through their lead counsel, J.S. Okutepa, objected, arguing that the two are not government officials and ought to have been admitted as witnesses. But the chairman of the tribunal, who referred to an earlier case, said the tribunal refused Amadu Attai’s witness status because he had deposed to being the deputy governorship candidate of the APC but told the tribunal he is a lecturer with University of Uyo. Justice Yakubu maintained that subpoenas were served on people not under the control of the parties in a case, adding that it had not been proven before to the tribunal by the petitioners that the witnesses were under the control of Governor Udom Emmanuel. Okutepa, who opposed the admissibility of the two subpoenaed witnesses of Emmanuel, prayed the subpoenas be set aside and their witness statements should not be filed after a time allowed by law. Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN), counsel to the first respondent, Emmanuel, in his reaction, prayed that the objection be overruled as there’s no law stating that only government officials should be subpoenaed before the tribunal. Ikpeazu said Amadu Attai had already deposed to a witness statement, and later sought to attach an additional witness statement which was not the case of Emmanuel’s witnesses. He further argued that Attai was a party of the petition and could not subpoena himself in his petition to testify for himself. Counsel to the PDP, Tayo Oyetibo (SAN), submitted that all arguments of Okutepa could not be looked into at the time of the proceeding. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com