John Ameh, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari says  the partial closure of Nigeria’s border with Benin Republic  is aimed at stopping  “massive smuggling activities”. He cited rice as one of commodities being smuggled on a massive scale into the country through Benin. A State House statement on Wednesday  said Buhari gave the reason during a meeting with his Beninois counterpart Patrice Talon. Both leaders met  in Japan  ahead of the 7th  Tokyo International Conference for African Development in Yokohama, which began  on Wednesday. According to the statement, Buhari  told Talon that smuggling was a setback for the agricultural policies of his administration, especially self-sufficiency in food production. “Now that our people in  rural areas are going back to their farms,the country has saved huge sums of money, which would otherwise have been expended on importing rice using our scarce foreign reserves, we cannot allow smuggling of the product at such alarming proportions to continue,” Buhari was quoted as telling Talon. The statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, added, “President Buhari said the limited closure of the country’s western border was to allow  the  security forces develop a strategy on how to stem the dangerous trend and its wider ramifications. “Responding to the concerns raised by President Talon on the magnitude of suffering caused by the closure, President Buhari said he had taken note and would reconsider reopening in the not too distant future. “He, however, disclosed that a meeting with Benin and Niger Republic presidents would soon be called to determine strict and comprehensive measures to curtail the level of smuggling across their borders.” Buhari also held a meeting with  South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, where the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians was a major topic of discussion. The two leaders  have already scheduled a meeting in Pretoria in October  to further discuss the killing of Nigerians and other bilateral issues. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   