Samson Folarin A video posted on the social media has revealed the moment operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad shot dead two suspected phone thieves. The incident reportedly happened in Igando area of Lagos. The video shows two of the suspects handcuffed to each other as an officer approaches with a third suspect. The man recording the video is heard identifying the suspects as he gloats over their arrest. “You go collect, you go collect,” he says, as he records the video. Then there is a sudden gunshot. The third suspect is shown in a yellow minibus. He is handcuffed as he reels in pain. Then the policemen, who keep threatening to kill the suspects, order them out of the bus. “Come down! Come down!” they shout. One of the policemen in the vehicle with the suspects is seen pushing one of them to the cops, who have taken firing squad positions. “Leave am make I kill am,” one of the policemen says. “Kunle, commot there make dem kill the idiot,” another cop says. Two gunshots follow. “God punish you! We no dey waste time,” the killer officer says. Disclosing the offences of the suspects, the man who recorded the video says the victim usually operated on Jiji, an online sales platform. He says they lured their victims by promising to buy advertised phones at good prices. Afterwards, he says, the men would collect the phones at gunpoint. He says, “They post on Jiji that they buy phones. Then they will call you and price your phone at high price.” The man alleges that the suspects collected N450,000 from him at gunpoint after they had priced his phone highly. READ ALSO: Nigerians can’t get US visa appointment dates despite payments “After calling you, they will use gun to collect your phone. This happened at Igando. “So, they collected my friend’s phone. My friend then changed his number on Jiji and posted another phone for sale. “They called him again and he decided to go there with anti-robbery operatives to arrest them so that he could get his phone back. “Anti-robbery got there, caught them and shot them.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, could not be reached for comment, as his line was busy.