Udochi Ogubuike Ikeja Electric and Magodo Resident Association have signed an agreement to invest in electricity infrastructure in the estate and provide reliable power supply to the residents. The power firm said in a statement that a contract was signed at MRA’s community hall in Lagos with representatives of IE and the association present. According to the statement, by this agreement, IE will provide Magodo residents with electricity supply beyond the existing standards with guaranteed performance levels. The firm said there would also be access to dedicated customer care and technical teams for prompt resolution of queries or technical issues within the estate. The Chief Operating Officer, IE, Mrs Folake Soetan, said the agreement was in line with the Federal Government’s ‘willing seller, willing buyer’ policy. She said, “We are confident that this agreement will serve as a model for other power agreements in the power sector because while it is in line with the Federal Government’s policy, it also reflects our unwavering commitment to our customers. “This has also been made possible by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission’s directive to provide an enabling environment with exceptional service delivery.” Soetan, who signed the contract on behalf of IE, described the agreement as a foremost partnership that would enhance growth and economic development within the community. She also emphasised the importance of the agreement to both parties, while reiterating IE’s commitment to ensuring adherence. The Chairman, Board of Trustees, Magodo Residents Association, Chief Stephen Owojori, commended the technical teams from both sides for a job well done. He described the signing ceremony as a significant achievement in the community’s efforts at enjoying uninterrupted power supply, noting that the agreement, if judiciously implemented, would strengthen the relationship between the community and IE. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   