The Chief Executive Officer, Halogen Group, Wale Olaoye, talks about the transition of security firms from physical to virtual consumer-centric arrangement and what consumers need to do to secure themselves in the digital age, in this interview with ANNA OKON About two decades ago, the concept of security was the traditional concept where you had high gates and dogs at the gate and a gateman. How did you operate in that era? What kind of challenges did the era present to your operation? The era is still prevalent; it is only improving. It is the physical security. But physical presence is not alone anymore.  At some point of managing the challenges, you still need the physical presence. In answering the question of the future, we are conscious of the fact that the physical security is about 50 per cent of the security network. The notion is that the physical presence has now become smarter than the open world. The man and the dog you see are all connected to a fusion centre. The physical man, whatever they see on the ground is connected to a bigger operation. They are smart guards and dogs that are technology-enabled because of the nature of the current world and what technology has brought to us. The system has been enhanced by technology. There are also virtual accessories plugged into you physically and plugged into your home. There are cybersecurity facilities to take care of hacks and other crimes. Your refrigerator can become smart to take care of your home and your children in your absence. Also businesses that are large have these facilities that monitor everything, whether the owners are there or not. There are also smart protection for government infrastructure business onshore and offshore, federal roads, planning and management. It is scalable; fits the world that we are in today, answers the question about smart world and allows us have more security and risk inclusion. Just as we have financial inclusion today, we also have risk inclusion. How has the journey been so far at Halogen? Halogen Security Company was created 27 years. It is a business that started as a private security company in 1992. We started our business as a deliberate attempt to train those in the private security space as it were that time. There was a situation in which the need arose to look for a local security company for our parent company and it was impossible to get the specific guards who were well trained and had the competency to do the job. It was that quest that dawned on our founder to challenge the company on its own to try to look for solution by recruiting some people, train them to take care of our agency’s residences and the office of our mother company at that time. We established the first training institution. It was our academy at that time.  In 27 years, we became the first private security company in Nigeria to run a QMS system that has ISO qualification. We quickly grew and became one of the fastest growing security companies at that time on the back of the expertise of that academy. These things that we did caused discerning companies to start engaging our services and many of those relationships have lasted for 20 years. We were working with companies that understood that security was the strategic part of their business; leaders in manufacturing, offshore and onshore oil and gas and other sectors engaged us. In 27 years, we have impacted not just on our customers the notion of private security in Nigeria but also on the regulatory regime because we work with regulators to bring security to the industry. Has there ever been a time when any of your clients has been attacked?  If yes, what was the lesson you learnt? We don’t bear arms by law. In some locations, we have had instances where they invaded a few of our clients. It seldom happens but a few armed robberies have happened to some factories where people go to attack them at night and where the men are in a remote area and are locked down. What we have learnt from that is that our men no longer work alone. Today, we have devices that trigger even when our men are sleeping on duty or they want to sleep. Remotely, we know because there is a login system that is live. There are also devices that trigger alarm wherever our clients are when there is a physical attempt at life and goods. Listening to you it seems as if your service is larger than life and therefore expensive. Can you protect a small business owner? Yes. The essence of our transformation and what it has done is that we realise that we must organise our business. Before now, we were largely B2B organisation; we sold only to corporations and government.  Today, with what technology has done, we sell to every human being. We are all exposed and we have no choice than to protect ourselves. Our first mission in ensuring risk management inclusion is to identify solution for individual personal safety, from personal safety to services for small businesses. We have Small and Medium Enterprises solutions. We cannot remain as a business-to-business organisation in easing people’s anxiety. We have gone into the consumer space. You may not even have to have physical guard in your home anymore. If you subscribe to our service, you automatically become our customer. That is the essence of technology. It is simplified and allows you to adjust your solutions on what people want. Do you have legal agreements drawn up so that sometimes when your risk fails or when your protection does not go the way it is supposed to, there is a compensation package for the clients? Can clients sue? The whole notion is that we are first and foremost a risk management company and we must take cognizance of the risk inherent in what we do as it affects our clients. Our promises are limited by certain conditions that must be met by both parties but where we fail, we actually have a system in place to make sure that our clients are compensated. In the last 27 years, we have done that; and in this virtual age, there are some agreements that take care of our clients. With technology, there are risks like crashing server and corrupt files with lost information. What do you do in such instances? Our work is managing and understanding the risk in this virtual age. That is why we have a whole company set up to manage cybersecurity risk. The first thing is in the nature of that whole risk itself, which has to do with data. Data is important; data is life and it is what is holding the world today. We manage that risk by designing in such a way that when something goes wrong, we have redundancy built into our operation to enable protection. Anything can happen at any time; we embed that in our risk management plans in the sense that if you have a data centre and you have your system on cloud, if cloud fails, it goes into redundancy. The major problem people face these days is identity theft. How do you handle that? That’s why we have an identity company and ICT firm that exposes you to 360 degrees of your risks in an open world. We make our clients to understand these risks and they are willing to spend extra money to protect themselves against them. The risk of people breaking into homes has reduced but there are more attempts these days to hack into people’s phones and accounts. Do you protect people’s Instagram and Facebook accounts? No. We do it on an enterprise basis first. We enterprise-protect your information assets, data sets network and end-point. Our virtual solutions for individuals along information assets start from that notion; from the big to the small. We advertise the risk of your phone being accessed and how that can be protected. We have an application and the device where that application is stored and everything in it can be protected. If the application is on your phone where you have opened an Instagram and Facebook accounts, it will be difficult for people to access those social media accounts once you don’t expose yourself in other ways. Does it also protect bank accounts? As long as you have our application installed in your phone and you have gone through the requisite basic protection requirements such as not sharing your password with anybody or letting anybody into your application or your password, access to anything stored on your devices will be difficult for an intruder. We have almost 200 million people in Nigeria currently. Are you protecting up to 20 million? No. Don’t forget we used to be a B2B security firm. We have announced that we are now prepared to engage consumers and this also grows in levels. So, if you say you are an individual and you need to protect your one room in virtual space, we can do that. Then we can protect your mobile assets, your generator and your car, the phone and other devices. Yes, we are now wired for risk inclusion, which means engaging the ordinary consumer. What are the risks of a security company as they try to manage other people’s risks? It is trying to get people to understand the new order; the decisions that come with that within our domain and environment; and educating the clients about their responsibilities. Your first responsibility will be to manage yourself; you have to do what you need to do. For instance, if you buy a car, you are not just going to get a driver’s licence, you have to understand that you don’t start your car without fuel. It is your responsibility to ensure that you also lock your car and know how to engage your gear. You should know how to drive in order to enjoy the full benefits of the vehicle that you have bought. That is why education knowledge today is part of what we offer. To function in the world that we are today, we need to upscale our knowledge and know the dos and don’ts. How do you get clients to subscribe to your service? We have taken the first step to inform the market of our new value proposition, which is the unveiling of all the operating systems and how they operate. Now, we understand that we have to function more as a consumer brand. We need to engage more in structured communications strategy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 