Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia The death of a 46-year-old banker from Umunemeze Afuguri in Umuahia, Abia State, Mr Onyechere Ibeakanma, who last week allegedly committed suicide in Lagos, has been described as a sacrilege. The Egwu II of Umuegwu Obiohuru Autonomous Community, where the deceased hailed from, Eze Charles Ngwuli, described the incident as a sacrilege in Igbo land. The monarch, whose palace is a few metres away from the victim’s house, said the community had not witnessed such a death in a long while, pointing out that certain traditional rites would be performed before the corpse could be brought home for proper burial. He described Onyechere as an intelligent man and wondered why he would take his own life. All efforts to get Onyechere’s senior brother and a known politician in the area, Friday Ibeakanma, did not succeed as he was said not to be available. A community source, however, told our correspondent that the victim had already been buried in Lagos last Friday, thus saving the family and the community from the trouble of performing the traditional rites. The banker allegedly committed suicide by drinking a substance suspected to be Sniper even as the sum of N16m was reportedly found in his account. Onyechere was said to be a Human Relations Manager with Union Bank Plc in Lagos. According to a close family source, the deceased left a suicide note for his wife, who went shopping when he came back from work, intimating her of his intentions to end his life. The alleged suicide note read, “The best, that’s what I used to call you. Finally, this is the end of my journey here on earth. The evil I have been battling with has succeeded in quenching the flame. You married a wrong man. You’re a good woman and you deserve the best. You need to be happy. You need to soar. “Please take care of our princess, Chinenyenwa. Tell her that I love her so much. Be peaceable with everyone though it’s not gonna be easy. Tell my family not to harbour any resentment against you. You’re a blessing to us. That’s the wish of a dying man. Don’t cry for me but pray for me. I love you and Chinenye so much. Goodbye my beloved.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com