Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The Executive Director/CEO, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib, on Wednesday said Nigeria spent the sum of N9.8bn to ensure the successful eradication of Wild Polio Virus in the country within the last three years. Shuaib made the disclosures in Abuja at an event to mark three years without a case of WPV in Nigeria. The NPHCDA boss said the last case of polio was recorded in Borno State on August 22, 2016. He said, “We recall the seeming success between 2014 and 2016 in the fight against the Wild Polio Virus that was truncated by the resurgence in August 2016. President Muhammadu Buhari immediately released N9.8bn and charged the (polio eradication) programme to look for more viruses and contain the outbreak within the shortest time. The result is what we are marking today; three years of being WPV-free. “Following achievement of three years without WPV, Nigeria has commenced the process of documentation towards the final certification by the Africa Regional Certification Commission. This process involves a detailed assemblage and review of surveillance, routine immunisation and supplementary immunisation activities data by the National Certification Committee before submission to ARCC in March, 2020. If ARCC is satisfied with Nigeria’s documentation, the country will be certified Wild Polio free.” He however said that despite the landmark, Nigeria’s polio status was still fragile because of insecurity in some parts of the country that had made some children in need of polio vaccine unreachable. He called on political leaders at all levels to continue to provide the needed oversight and financial support for immunisation. He also urged traditional and religious leaders to sustain the mobilisation of the people to accept vaccination for their children. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com