Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Police on Monday said it has arrested three students of the School of Health Technology, Akure, who allegedly gang-raped a female student of the institution. According to the Police, the suspects are: Aderoboye Damilola, Eyitayo Charles and Blessing Michael. The three suspects were said to have committed the crime last week Wednesday at the residence of the boyfriend of the victim. It was gathered that the case has been transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department of the command. The Police Public Relations Officer of the Command, Mr. Femi Joseph, who disclosed this to our Correspondent, said the Command had begun investigation into the matter. Joseph said, “We have commenced an investigation into the matter, and after the investigation, the suspects will be charged to court.” A source narrated that  the victim was gang-raped by the suspects in the boyfriend’s house, which is not far from the campus of the institution at Oda Road, Akure. “The lady (victim) went to visit her boyfriend in the late evening of Wednesday, but she did not meet him at home. “She met another boy who is a  friend to her boyfriend. So, she decided to wait for her boyfriend. “Suddenly, the three suspects entered into the room with dangerous weapons and asked the boy they met inside to have sex with the lady, but he refused. “It was after that that they gang-raped the lady,” the source said. Narrating her ordeal in the hands of the alleged rapists, the victim said, “I was in the room when the three of them forcefully had their way in and pounced on me. “When they entered into the room, I was shocked and they asked me to take off my dress and to lay on the bed. “I appealed to them to leave me alone, but they rebuffed my plea. “They asked one of them to forcefully undress me, after which the three of them raped me. “They even threatened me that they had the video recordings of the attack and that they would upload the videos on the social media if I tell anyone. “But I could not keep the trauma to myself and I told one of my friends in confidence. “She reported the issue to the Police and the boys were tracked and arrested. “I know one of them (Eyitayo), who had once asked me out on a date, but I declined his request. “I had to speak out now because I cannot keep it to myself and I really want justice. “Those boys really took advantage of and abused me.” In a reaction, the Provost of the School of Health Technology, Dr. Felix Olawoye, condemned the alleged act and declared that the suspects must face the wrath of the law. “The students have been arrested and as an institution, the law must take its rightful course, after which the school’s disciplinary committee would also present its recommendation to the political head (the Commissioner for Health). “We don’t tolerate any form of in discipline,” he declared.