Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday stopped moves  by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission to seized properties belonging to the immediate past governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari. Ruling on Yari’s  ex parte application, Justice Taiwo Taiwo ordered  the parties to the case to maintain the status quo pending the hearing and determination of the main suit. The defendants are the ICPC and the Attorney General of the Federation. The applicant through his lawyer, Mamhud Magaji (SAN),  moved the ex parte application on Friday alleging that the ICPC had sealed off one of his houses and inscribed on it “under investigation” without the backing of any court order. Justice Taiwo restrained the two respondents from interfering with Yari’s rights unders sections 34, 35, 37, 41 and 43 of the  1999 Constitution. But the  judge on Friday  granted an ex parte application by the ICPC for  the interim forfeiture of six bank accounts belonging to Yari and two other firms linked to him. The companies are Kayatawa Nigeria Limited and B.T. Oil and Gas Nigeria Limited. The judge held that   Friday’s order of interim forfeiture of the bank accounts was not affected by  Monday’s ruling. In   his suit  on Monday, the ex-governor sought,  among others, an order “retraining the respondents from seizing, impounding, taking over, confiscating or otherwise forfeiting the assets and properties of the applicant wherever they may be located within Nigeria or anywhere else in the world pending the hearing and determination of the hearing and determination of the notion on notice”. He alleged that the ICPC’s move against him was a witch-hunt, adding that he had been  a  target “for intimidation, arrest and detention based on spurious allegations by some powerful elements in  the All Progressives Congress against him – to the agents of the 1st defendant (AGF) and the 2nd defendant ICPC)”. According to him, the individuals thus “decided to carry out a vendetta and revenge against the applicant including instigating the respondents against the applicant upon their spurious conclusion without evidence” that he was guilty of “corrupt practices as former governor of Zamfara State and was in breach of the Code of Conduct Act”. Yari added, “This witch-hunt is clearly politically motivated, baseless, and has been designed only to discredit and humiliate the applicant in a bid to decimate him politically and this court is statutory empowered to protect any violation against the applicant’s fundamental rights.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com