Oluwatobi Akindele First Bank of Nigeria Limited and a security guard, Mr Jimoh Aina, have resolved the issues surrounding the loss of N650,000 to a series of fraudulent transactions carried out on the septuagenarian’s account. It was gathered that the parties resolved the issues during mediation facilitated by the Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency. The meeting had in attendance representatives of the bank, Aina, his lawyer and two witnesses. It was gathered that the bank agreed to address the security breaches with respect to Aina’s account. PUNCH Metro had reported that the 72-year-old Aina, who maintains a savings account with the bank, was credited with the sum of N750,000 on May 6, 2019. The money was his own share of the proceeds of the sale of a piece of family land. In the evening of the same day, the sum of N500,000 was allegedly withdrawn from the account by an unknown person. It was learnt that another N149,000 was withdrawn from the account the following day before Aina could make it to the bank to lodge a complaint. The Lagos State indigene said his complaint at the Ita-Elewa branch of the bank in Ikorodu yielded no fruit, adding that there had been subsequent fraudulent transactions on his account. However, in its response, the bank said a FirstMobile app was activated by the customer using his confidential Automated Teller Machine card details (ATM PAN and Personal Identification Number) and the One Time Password sent to his registered phone number. First Bank insisted that the customer carried out transactions on his account, using the self-service platform, adding that it was not responsible for the unauthorised withdrawals. LASCOPA, however, intervened in the case and invited the bank and the customer to state their respective sides of the story at a meeting on August 1. Aina’s lawyer, Mrs Toun Adekoya, said the bank agreed to address every security breach on the account, adding that a pact to that effect was signed on August 7. The Public Relations Officer of LASCOPA, Moses Ogunleye, confirmed that the matter had been amicably resolved. He, however, warned consumers not to compromise their ATM cards by disclosing their PINs to anybody. He added that if they receive calls from people claiming to be from their banks, they should ignore such and walk up to any branch of the banks to find out. Ogunleye said, “The General Manager, LASCOPA, Mrs Kemi Olugbode, has warned bank customers and Lagos residents in general to refrain from disclosing their ATM PINs to anybody, including their spouses, relations and children, to prevent a compromise. They should also refrain from giving out their PINs to strangers to help them withdraw money. “She also warned that any dormant or inactive account should be closed, because banks will make deductions on such an account for their services, especially on current accounts.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com