Oluwatobi Akindele Residents of Isheri Olofin in Ogun State, where soldiers allegedly killed three community members on Monday, are apprehensive of more attacks. PUNCH Metro had reported that trouble started when the community staged the ‘Isheri Day’, an annual carnival. The soldiers were alleged to have accompanied one Tiri, an indigene of the community laying claim to the Kara Market, to the festival. Some of the revellers reportedly resisted the soldiers, who attempted to make way for Tiri to pass in the midst of the crowd. The issue was said to have degenerated to a free-for-all, as the drunk soldiers, who were allegedly trying to protect their principal, opened fire on the residents. While two persons were said to have died on the spot, another resident, Adelani, who sustained gunshot wounds in the leg, was rushed to hospital. The soldiers were reported to have mounted a motorcycle and fled the scene. However, some of the angry residents caught one of the soldiers, whom they assaulted by stoning him. When the injured soldier’s colleagues rushed him to hospital, they met Adelani at the medical facility. PUNCH Metro learnt that the soldiers ordered the doctor at gunpoint to treat their colleague and dragged out Adelani and allegedly stabbed him to death with the bayonet of their guns. A youth leader in the community, Adeola Lukman, called on the government to curb the excesses of soldiers posted to the area as the residents were now living in fear. He stated, “People are now living in fear of another attack by the soldiers. Some have even stopped sleeping in the community. Whenever there are issues between couples, the wives will go and hire soldiers to beat up their husbands. “The soldiers are even having affairs with some of the wives of the residents. We plead with the government to address this issue, because we can’t fight the soldiers. And the police cannot address the matter, because they usually claim that the soldiers are more powerful.” The families of Adelani and Tayese Oketola, victims of the attack, are demanding justice for their slain sons. READ ALSO: Eagles full of silly characters –Ndidi Adelani’s brother, Saheed Jimoh, who spoke on behalf of the family, said his death had dealt a terrible blow to the family, adding that the government should help them get justice for the victims. Jimoh said, “Since the incident occurred, my parents have been heartbroken, especially my mother. The painful thing is that my brother was not a troublesome person. I want the government to help us; I want justice for my brother, who was murdered in cold blood. “The worst part is that we don’t have money for his burial expenses. We already paid money to ensure that the corpse was deposited in the mortuary. And, we are spending money to follow up with the investigation.” Tayese’s mother, Toyin, invoked the spirit of her son to punish the soldiers, who were allegedly responsible for his death. The mother of six said he was her source of joy, adding that the soldiers would not go unpunished for killing him. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 