Nike Popoola The banking sector is going through repositioning which informed the need for operators to reposition for relevance. This need was highlighted during the 2019 graduates induction & prize award event by the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, in Lagos on Saturday. During the event, the institute inducted 848 ACIB, 1,222 MCIB, 37 Diploma, 34 CBMBA   and 20 MSc/ACIB graduates, totalling 2,161 inductees. The Managing Director, Ecobank Group, Mr Patrick Akinwutan, while making a presentation on ‘Repositioning for relevance in a competitive environment, said the banking sector was going through more disruption. He said, “The banking sector has undergone some changes, but I have news for you; it will undergo added disruption. Yesterday, we had nothing like the digital apps in use today; tomorrow, we are certain of further disruption underlined by artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics, big data analytics among others.” To reposition in a competitive environment, he said, a person must evaluate and understand the trends that would impact the industry now and into the future. He added, “Channels of delivery have changed significantly, thanks to the Internet and mobile phones, ATMs, pos and QR codes. Indeed block-chain, robots, robotics, artificial intelligence, virtual reality etc are gradually taking their place in financial services post industrial era.” The President, CIBN, Dr Uche Olowu, said it was pertinent to mention that the increasing competition in the digitised banking environment would no longer be between banks but with non-banking institutions. He said, “Fintech and big tech firms such as Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple are now capturing more of the banking value chain. Furthermore, payment service banking is set to further disrupt the banking industry. “For example, as of July 2019, telcos such as MTN and Airtel Nigeria had been granted licences by the Central Bank of Nigeria. PWC suggests that from 2025-2035, a market economy would readily exist without traditional banks. “What does all this information mean for banking professionals? Any of you who wishes to survive and thrive within the industry over the next 10-20 years must adapt and become relevant to the future of banking. Indeed, professionals and would-be banking professionals must reposition themselves for relevance in the changing environment.”  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com