• Counsels others to seek Indian-owned companies for outsourcing An international firm, Dynamics Intelligence, has shut its offices in Nigeria, alleging extortion on the part of its employees and the company’s inability to trust them. The chairman of the company, Jenna Bourgeois, revealed the closure on his LinkedIn page on Thursday. He also warned customers, who wished to outsource to seek out India-owned companies for “best results.” Citing some of the challenges, the company had faced in Nigeria, Bourgeois said that the company have had to deal with numerous instances of employees and contractors extorting the company in the past year. READ ALSO: Jubilation over my sacking will be short-lived — Melaye Dynamics Intelligence, which operates from US, Canada and Africa engages in technology solutions partners with Microsoft and Amazon to create custom cloud-based productivity software. Bourgeois said, “Effective immediately, we will be closing our operations in Nigeria. Over the last year, we have faced numerous examples of employees and contractors extorting the company. “While we kept giving Nigerians a chance to gain skills and employment, we cannot run a company when we can’t trust the people who work for us. “Any company interested in conducting business in Nigeria can reach out to us to learn how to avoid being scammed by technical resources. “It is a kick in our face that we spent so much time trying to give Nigerians the benefit of the doubt to have this happen. Customers who wish to outsource, are well advised to seek an India-owned company for the best results. #Nigeria“. Meanwhile, in a July 30, 2018 article on LinkedIn, Bourgeois had lauded different aspects of the country. On its potential, he said, “The numbers don’t lie and when you have 100 million people under age 30, Nigeria simply outnumbers the United States with an estimated 112 million people under age 44. “In 10 or 20 years, Nigeria will be viewed as comparable to China and India which will also make Nigeria incredibly influential in African geo-politics. Some have already said that Nigeria has surpassed South Africa to become the continent’s leader.”