Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State and the immediate past governor of the state, Mr Ayodele Fayose, on Monday differed on an alleged plot to disrupt the yearly Udiroko Festival in Ado Ekiti. The APC accused Fayose of a plot to cause havoc during the celebration with the intention of destabilisng the government of Dr Kayode Fayemi. However, Fayose said the APC was only afraid of his shadow, adding that “his footprints (are) haunting the Fayemi government.” The annual Udiroko Festival signifies the first day of the traditional calendar of the ancient Ado Ekiti community. The APC Director of Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, in a statement, said, “We have it on good authority that a former governor of the state wants to hide under the Udiroko Festival to attempt to launch himself back into the politics of the state, having failed woefully to achieve this through the ballot. “The former governor and his cohorts, having been traumatised by the gale of unprecedented achievements of the present administration of Dr Fayemi, are now attempting to make a return to the politics of the state through the back door.” Oluwalana stated that security agents had been alerted and mobilised to ensure a peaceful celebration of the festival, adding that “any attempt by a person or groups to foment trouble will be promptly dealt with.” But Fayose’s media aide, Lere Olayinka, stated, “It is obvious that more than two years after manipulating themselves to power, they are still afraid of the shadow of Fayose, a man whose footprints will remain in the sands of Ekiti forever. “Rather than jumping up and down, spinning lies against Fayose, who is moving on with his life after serving Ekiti diligently, Fayemi and his APC election riggers should concentrate on making meaningful impacts in the state, because almost one year has been wasted already out of the four years that was stolen for them. “Also, Fayemi should endeavour to give the Udiroko Festival the same level of glamour and attention it was given by the Fayose-led PDP government, instead of looking for a cheap way to stay away from the festival as he is planning to do.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 