’Femi Asu The US Department of Energy is looking towards Africa to develop opportunities in the exploration, production and monetisation of Liquefied Natural Gas. The promotion of gas as a “cleaner, cheaper” energy source remains a priority for the US government, according to a statement by the organisers of Africa Oil Week. The US Energy Secretary, Rick Perry, was quoted as saying, “Increased amounts of the US LNG on the world market benefit the American economy, American workers and consumers and help make the air cleaner around the globe.” The statement said the appetite for imported gas was growing steadily across Africa, with the recent announcement of a plan by South Africa to open its first LNG import terminal in 2024. “The US gas production is skyrocketing. Currently at six billion cubic feet per day, production is forecast to grow to 10bcf by the end of 2020. This confluence of circumstance makes Africa a common-sense partner for the US as it sets out to cement its position as an energy superpower,” it added. The statement said the US Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy, Steven Winberg, would join 22 pan-African ministers at the Africa Oil Week summit in Cape Town in November. It said, “He will use the event to share the US energy policy points with the continent and outline a vision for deeper US commitment to Africa in the oil, gas and power sectors. “This vision looks set to encompass increased two-way trade and investment between the US and Africa, with the US making potential capital available on joint-ventures and to part-finance the LNG infrastructure for energy-lacking African countries.” According to the statement, the announcement of Winberg’s attendance to the summit comes alongside several major US private-sector investments into the African energy sector. It said, “ExxonMobil is making progress in Mozambique with their Rovuma LNG project in deepwater Area 4 block, which contains more than 85 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Particularly notable though is Anadarko’s recent announcement of its final investment decision to construct a $20bn gas liquefaction and export terminal in Mozambique, the largest single LNG project approved in Africa.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 