Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Ministry of Aviation has queried the decision of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria to prevent domestic airline operator, Skypower Express Airways, from operating charter service for the ongoing hajj in Saudi Arabia. The ministry said Skypower Express as a Nigerian carrier had met all the necessary provisions, rules and regulations of the country and deserved to be allowed to benefit from charter and ad hoc flights. It stated that the airline like Flynas, a charter operator from Saudi Arabia, should have been allowed to take part in the operations. In documents made available to journalists on Sunday, the ministry said NAHCON had no statutory power or right to stop a charter operator such as Skypower from the hajj operations. In a letter dated August 9, 2019 and signed by the Legal Adviser to the ministry, S.S. Liman, to the Chairman of NAHCON, Abdullahi Mustapha, it explained that the commission needed appropriate government authorities before coordinating hajj and umrah operations. The ministry noted that NAHCON did not liaise with it before issuing circulars stopping airlines on charter operations from the hajj. According to the ministry, all issues of civil authority in Nigeria are subject to it as the aeronautical authority. The ministry said the Bilateral Air Service Agreement binding Nigeria and Saudi Arabia was misrepresented in the NAHCON’s circular. The letter read in part, “The decision whether or not Skypower Express or nay airline operators/companies of Nigeria should or can operate charter flight to Saudi Arabia is not for the commission to take as it is clearly beyond its mandate. “Section 4 (i) (b) of the commission Act is referred to. That decision can only be made by the aeronautical authority of Nigeria (the Federal Ministry of Transportation).” Similarly, the Federal Ministry of Transportation had in a letter dated July 30, 2019 complained about NAHCON’s directive to licensing companies to patronsie only scheduled carrier or the three carriers approved by NAHCON. The three carriers, according to the letter, are Max Air, Med-View and Flynas. The ministry said subsisting BASA between Nigeria and Saudi Arabia allowed airlines from both countries to enjoy charter operations whenever the need arose. Med-View recently petitioned the Federal Government over NAHCON’s alleged breach of hajj agreement contract. Efforts to reach NAHCON on the issues involving Skypower Express Airways and Med-View were unsuccessful as most of the commission’s were said to be away in Saudi Arabia for the hajj. The Chief Executive Officer of Skypower Express Airways, Capt. Muhammed Joji, however told journalists that the intervention of the Ministry of Aviation had ensured its participation in the exercise. He said the airline operated three flights out of Nigeria with 1,893 pilgrims. “NAHCON has been breaking the laws all along and people have been keeping quiet. NAHOCN has no business in how an approved carrier airlifts pilgrims. Saudi Arabia recognsies only two institutions in Nigeria when it comes to hajj operations: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Civil Aviation Authority. NAHCON has no business with charter operators,” he said. Joji said the Federal Government should look into the activities of the commission. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com