Tunji Bosun The son of the Chief Imam of Ode-Omi, Abdulazeez Sanni, who was abducted last Sunday has been freed alongside two others by his abductors. Sanni who was set free along with two others – Adams Bamidele, an accountant, and Jelili Adams, a tailor, described their experience in the hands of the abductors as “pathetic.” He however declared that they were abducted by Ijaw men from the Niger Delta. Sanni was reportedly abducted alongside Jelil and Bamidele Adams on the eve of the Eid-el-Kabir at Ode-Omi, a boundary community between Lagos and Ogun Waterside. He spoke with newsmen on Friday evening at the Ogun Police Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, shortly after he was reportedly rescued from his abductors. He said, “We were preparing for Ileya festival, unfortunately, some gunmen came into the   house and started shooting until I was kidnapped. So, since that Sunday I was in the creek. “I had been in their den since Sunday until I was released today. We were fed with what I can call “feselu” in Ijebuland; a mixture of water and garri not properly cooked. “I don’t understand their language, but from what they are saying, they should be from Niger Delta. They are Ijaw people.” Asked whether they paid ransom, he said, “We did not pay a ransom. They threatened us but, we thank God and Ogun State Government for the swift response. They demanded N50m but, Alhamdulillah (thank God) we are save.” The state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama told newsmen that the police made frantic efforts to rescue the victims. He said suspect was arrested with a pistol in the process of rescuing the victims. When asked about the police speedboat the kidnappers escaped in, the CP said, “We will get our speedboat back when we want. We did not want to lose the victims.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 