John Ameh, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has described the Olubadan of Ibadan, His Imperial Majesty, Ọba Saliu Adetunji, as a “visionary and purposeful” leader who has promoted peaceful co-existence across cultures. Buhari conveyed this in a message to congratulate the monarch on his 91st birthday. The President wished him “more years of good health and strength”, in the message, which was signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina. The message reads, “President Muhammadu Buhari felicitates with His Imperial Majesty, Ọba Saliu Olasupo Adetunji, Olubadan of Ibadan on his 91stbirthday, wishing him more years of good health and strength. “President Buhari joins Oyo State Government, Council of Chiefs, royal family and all indigenes in saluting His Imperial Majesty’s visionary and purposeful leadership, which consistently promotes peaceful and harmonious co-existence, and respect for religions and diverse cultures. “As the 41st Olubadan of Ibadan clocks 91, the President believes Oba Adetunji has successfully carried on with the legacies of his forefathers, dating back to the 16th century, with an intentional focus to uphold the beautiful traditions of hospitality, respect for authorities and communal development that has always defined the throne. “The President extols the royal father for his maturity and wise counsels to leaders and indigenes alike, nudging the younger generation on the path of good education and entrepreneurship. “President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will continue to protect Oba Adetunji and his family, and grant him more strength to look after his people.” Meanwhile, Buhari on Monday condoled with industrialist, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, over the death of some members of his family. “The large extended family lost three persons, Aliko’s cousin, Madugu Dantata; his uncle, Alhaji Murtala Dantata; and Alhaji Sa’idu Fanta, a relation”, the Presidency said. It added, “In a message of condolence to Aliko Dangote, the Dantata family and the Government and people of Kano State, through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, President Buhari described the losses, which occurred in rapid succession, as irreparable losses that must be accepted as God-ordained.”