Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Police Command, on Thursday, confirmed the arrest of Mr Christopher Idam, 61, a retired Deputy Superintendent of Police, and Uka Chukwu, 22, for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old primary school pupil at Amaokpu village, Amasiri in the Afikpo North Local Government Area of the state. Southern City News gathered that the suspects were arrested on Saturday, August 17, 2019. Our correspondent gathered that the minor was sent by her mother to hawk ‘ponmo’, a business the family is known for and depended on for survival, when she was lured into the house of one of the suspects and allegedly defiled by the men. Our correspondent learnt that the development caused the victim’s mother, who had waited endlessly for her daughter’s return, to go in search of the girl. In the process of searching for the victim, she was said to have been found in one of the rooms in Idam’s house. The bewildered mother raised the alarm, which attracted neighbours and passers-by, who invited the police to arrest the suspects. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Loveth Odah, said the command got a report on the incident and was already investigating it. According to her, the suspects have been arrested and transferred to the police headquarters, adding that statements were being taken from both parties. “The suspects were arrested and a police medical practitioner was brought in to examine the girl for the purpose of preparing the medical report. The suspects have been transferred to the police headquarters for further investigation,” Odah stated. A source in the community, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that when the victim was queried, she alleged that the retired police officer and the other suspect, Chukwu, had before now been trying to lure her into their house with money. The source said after the girl’s confession, the suspects were handed over to the police for investigation. The source stated, “My sister reported on August 17, 2019, that the two suspects had been taking advantage of her daily whenever she went out to sell ‘ponmo’. Today, they were handed over to the police in Amasiri. Both men are from Amaokpu village in the Amasiri community, Afikpo North Local Government Area of the state. They are known for doing this evil. They should face justice. “For now, they are being accused of defiling a 10-year-old girl. She is on holiday with the mother here. The mother said the daughter was sent to sell ‘ponmo’. “The mother said the girl was lured by the retired police officer and one Chukwu into Idam’s house. She confirmed before the police that both suspects usually lured her into the house with money to have carnal knowledge of her.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com