Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Oyo State Police Command, on Tuesday, allayed the fears of residents of Ibadan over the alleged presence of a serial killer squad, suspected to be Badoo boys, in the city. It was gathered that residents of Abatakan, Ojoo, Fatokun, Moniya, Olomowewe and Akingbile, all in the Akinyele Local Government Area of the state, had been living in fear in the last few days. As a consequence, the residents have resorted to returning home early from their daily activities and remain indoors, while advising visitors to call them on the phone before venturing into the areas. A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “People in my area now bolt their doors around 5.30pm; whoever wants to visit must call and be properly identified. “Even those, who sell consumables, now ask their customers to call them before they can open their doors.” About six people have been reportedly killed in three operations in the last one month by hoodlums suspected to be members of the gang in different locations in the affected areas. Apart from the six, who lost their lives in strange circumstances, PUNCH Metro learnt that a woman was hospitalised with a very deep cut allegedly sustained after she was attacked by the hoodlums. The victim, according to sources, is in coma as of the time of filing this report. Reacting to the development, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said, “I want to appeal to residents not to entertain any fear over this development as the police will apprehend the suspects soonest. “Residents of the state, including journalists, should not be too quick to compare the operation of these attackers to that of Badoo boys of the Ikorodu, Lagos, experience. We should not engage in anything that will create fear in the hearts of the people. “I am saying this because people tend to believe the story and may be running helter-skelter when the case has not actually degenerated to that level. READ ALSO: I’ve never visited Dubai, protest not coup -Sowore “Already, the command is clamping down on some suspects; very soon, the police authority will definitely parade them. Again, people should be ready to assist the police with credible information though we have our officers, both uniformed and others in the neighbourhoods. “People with credible information should endeavour to call our control room on 07055495413 and 08081768614 from every nook and cranny of the state to report distress situations.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com