Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta A truck loaded with granite on Friday, crushed a soldier, identified as R. A. Nata’ala, to death in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The accident occurred at Iyana-Mortuary near Oja-Gbangba, Ijaye, Abeokuta around 10.30 am. The victim was said to be on his motorcycle when the truck with number plate, JJJ833XW suffered a brake failure, swerved off its lane and crushed the soldier to death. An eyewitness told our correspondent that the truck was coming from Ajebo-Idi-Aba Road, and heading towards Ijaye when the incident occurred. The eyewitness explained that the traffic light stopped some vehicles going towards Idi-Aba, including the victim on his motorcycle. The truck which was moving in opposite direction rammed into the motorcycle. It was learnt that soldiers from 35 Artillery Brigade, Alamala, came to take away the remains of their colleague. The Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, and the Ogun State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Clement Oladele, confirmed the incident. Oladele said three vehicles – a tipper truck with the number plate JJJ833XW; a Mazda 626 with the number plate, APP272DH and a motorcycle whose number could not be identified – were involved in the crash. He added, “Four people consisting of three males and one female were involved. One person was injured while a soldier on motorcycle riding with a lady died.” Oladele said the accident was caused by ‘dangerous driving on the part of the tipper driver which made the truck to run on top of the motorcycle. “The corpse of the soldier has been deposited at the General Hospital Ijaye, Abeokuta Morgue, and the obstruction has been cleared,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   