Peter Dada, Akure An unidentified middle-aged woman has allegedly beaten her four-year-old daughter to death in Akure, Ondo State. It was gathered that the woman, whose whereabouts are currently unknown, beat the daughter to a state of unconsciousness on Wednesday and later rushed her to the Ondo State University Teaching Hospital, Akure, but the girl was said to have died before she got to the hospital. A nurse in the hospital, who spoke on condition of anonymity, explained that the woman rushed the deceased to the children’s emergency ward of the OSUTH on Wednesday night. She said, “The woman brought the girl to the children’s emergency ward of the hospital for treatment. As we were trying to attend to her, we noticed that the victim must have been beaten to death. “If you see the body of the girl, there were marks all over it, which indicated that it was a case of child abuse. By the time the doctor on duty attended to the victim, it was discovered that the mother brought her in dead the hospital. “The doctor had to quickly tell the woman that the child was dead. Before we knew it, the woman had grabbed the corpse and ran out of the hospital. “All efforts to stop her were not successful as we did not know how she managed to escape from the hospital; so, the matter had to be reported to the police.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident and said investigation had already commenced into the matter. He, however, noted that there was no proper record of the case at the hospital, adding that efforts were on to track down the woman. “We have already sent some officers to go and investigate the case to know what actually went wrong,” the PPRO stated. Also confirming the incident, the Administrative Secretary of the hospital, Mr Dayo Owoseni, said, “I only heard about it this morning (Thursday) and we have called on the doctor on duty to come and explain what happened to us. “The Chief Medical Director of the hospital is not around and the other top management staff members are in an emergency meeting at the moment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com