John Ameh, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari met with  traditional rulers from the North in Abuja on Friday to examine the security challenges  facing  the country. The monarchs were led to the meeting by  the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III. Addressing the rulers, Buhari said his administration had resolved to overhaul the  police structure by providing modern equipment  and collaborating with local communities in intelligence gathering. He also said the Federal Government  would  recruit more  police  officers  from the local communities. The President added that the reason he separated the Ministry of Police Affairs from the Ministry of Interior was to ensure a proper coordination of police duties, especially proactive intelligence gathering. He said, “I have decided to meet with Your Highnesses to assure you that government is determined to tackle and deal decisively with all security challenges facing us as a nation. “This consultation therefore is to engage you, our royal fathers, so that, collectively, we can arrive at solutions to any and all security problems in the country. “We must all play our part to finally address these security challenges, particularly traditional rulers, in your respective communities, where you feel the pulse of the people, being the closest to the populace at the grassroots level.” Buhari  recalled that during a similar meeting with South-West traditional rulers, he spoke on the government’s decision to allow states deploy drones and closed-circuit television cameras along highways to combat banditry. He added, “These policies and programmes include a robust revamping of police intelligence gathering capacity and the significant boosting of the number of security personnel in our  communities. This, in specific terms, will include recruiting more police officers and doing so whenever possible from their local government areas, where they would then be stationed in the best traditions of policing worldwide. “Working with  state governments also, we intend to improve the equipping of the police  with advanced technology and equipment that can facilitate their work. To drive this, I recently created a full-fledged Ministry of Police Affairs. “As I said during my meeting with the traditional rulers from the South-West, directives have been issued to the appropriate federal authorities to speedily approve licensing for states requesting the use of drones to monitor forests and other criminal hideouts.” The  Sultan promised that the monarchs would support the government’s plans. He said, “We have come to assure you of our total support, total commitment and undiluted dedication to moving the nation forward as one of the best countries of the world.” Meanwhile, Borno State Governor,  Babagana Zulum, has said the porous land borders in the state remain major setbacks for the war against insurgency. Zulum, who was responding to questions on the recent attacks by insurgents in the Gubio and Magumeri local government areas,  said  insurgents often took advantage of the porous borders within Niger, Chad and Cameroon to launch attacks on communities in the  state. He called for an increased  military presence in all exposed communities in the state, while the state government would complement the efforts by strengthening the Civilian Joint Task Force. Zulum added, “However, we must all address the root causes of insurgency, which include poverty, hunger and unemployment. “I have talked to Mr President and he has listened to our complaints. “We need military presence in all locations.” The governor told State House correspondents that though the insurgents set local government secretariat buildings and other facilities ablaze during the recent attacks, the inhabitants were not displaced. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   