Adelani Adepegba, Olaleye Aluko and Justin Tyopuusu The panel set up by the Defence Headquarters to investigate the killing of three police officers and a civilian in Taraba by soldiers last week visited Governor Darius Ishaku on Wednesday. The panel led by Rear Admiral I.T. Olaiya arrived at the Taraba Government House at about 1.50pm and proceeded to the Governor’s office. Governor Darius Ishaku, who received the panel at about 1.49pm, requested journalists to vacate the venue of the meeting. But a source in the meeting told one of our correspondents that Olaiya told the governor that the seven-man panel was in the state to investigate the unfortunate killing of the police officers and a civilian in the state. The police source added that Ishaku urged the panel to do a good job as Nigerians were watching with keen interest the outcome of investigation. Meanwhile, parents and relations of the fleeing kidnap kingpin, Wadume, have fled their homes in Ibi. One of our correspondents gathered that Wadume’s house in Ibi and the place he was picked up by the police had been deserted. Residents of the area told one of our correspondents that the fear of arrest had made the suspected kidnapper’s parents and relations to flee his house. “We are shocked to discover that Bala Hamisu Wadume is a criminal. He used to sell fish here and all of a sudden he became so rich that he could buy cars and built houses for people. “Wadume is a gentle and kind-hearted person who doesn’t want to see people suffer. I am indeed taken aback about the revelations about him, But his people have deserted the house since the news broke out, “one of the residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told one of our correspondents. Another resident, Musa Maijama’a, told one of our correspondents that the suspected kidnapper had over 12 mini buses and five speed boats he was using to ferry people across the River Benue in Ibi. A police source told one of our correspondents that two of the buses seized from his house were in custody of the police in Jalingo while five were impounded in Ibi. “We are trailing the remaining buses and hopefully we will get them all. The panel investigating the case has arrived but  that won’t stop us from going on with our investigations.” The seven-man panel which is expected to be in Taraba for three days is expected to visit Ibi on Thursday (today) to interact with relevant sources for on an on-the-spot assessment of the incident. Taraba: Family of two killed relations demands probe Meanwhile, the family of Inspector Mark Ediale has demanded an independent investigation into the killing of three members of the Intelligence Response Team by soldiers in Taraba State. They said only an independent probe and justice would assuage their loss of two family members in the incident. READ ALSO: Buhari visits IDPs, says I’m aware of your sufferings Three policemen and a civilian were killed after they came under attack from soldiers while conveying Wadume to the state command headquarters in Jalingo on August 6. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, Mark’s elder brother, Andrew, identified the civilian who died in the attack as Olajide Owolabi, his nephew, adding that he had been working with the IRT for about two years. While condemning the killing of the policemen and his nephew, he also asked the Army to explain the reason for the attack as well as the release of the kidnap suspect by the soldiers. Andrew said, “The inglorious killing of our brother in Taraba State while on official duty for this country, which he has served for 16 years, is unfortunate. “We vehemently speak against the heinous act carried out by the Nigerian Army; We demand a very thorough investigation not only by the Nigerian government, but by international and independent bodies as well. “Why was the kidnap kingpin released? The effort of the gallant police officers was not only compromised, their lives were equally cut short; we demand justice.” The aggrieved family described the incident as a conspiracy, insisting that the law must take its course against the perpetrators, noting that the blood of the slain men was crying for justice. Andrew added, “In spite of what they (police and military investigating panels) are doing, we want an independent investigation, it is not about compensation, we what justice to be done. “The civilian that was killed is my younger sister’s son, Olajide Owolabi. He has been working with them (IRT) for the past two years now.” We are interrogating suspects —DHQ However, the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, has said more arrests and interrogations of some civilians, soldiers and policemen are ongoing, as “the dragnet is being widened for Wadume’s arrest.” It was learnt that the joint operatives were closing in on the wanted kidnap kingpin after his last location was traced to Lafia, Nasarawa State, on Tuesday. A top police source on the team in Taraba State confirmed this, noting that the kingpin would be nabbed shortly as escape routes out of Nasarawa, Taraba and contiguous states had been blocked. One of our correspondents reported on Wednesday that the DHQ panel was extending its interrogations to officers at the Nigerian Army 23 Brigade in Yola, Adamawa State, which controls 93 Battalion, Takum, Taraba State, who are alleged to have issued instructions to the commanding officer at the unit in Ibi. It had also been reported that the army headquarters was already considering the rotation of most of the troops in Adamawa and Taraba states, as the allegations of connivance with criminals were becoming more rampant. The Defence Headquarters, Abuja, told our correspondent on Wednesday that more arrests and interrogations were ongoing for Wadume’s arrest. An authoritative source said, “Investigation is ongoing. There are lots of insinuations about what an army captain or another has said. These are all insinuations. Arrests and more suspects have to be brought into the dragnet of the investigation. When you say a seven-man panel, it is more than seven. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Borno donates Sambisa Forest for Ruga “The panel has operatives working with them tracking and trailing these suspects through various intelligence channels.” A police source added, “After the operatives trailed him (Wadume) to Lafia, Nasarawa State, it is believed that he is still within that axis. His arrest may be made highly secretive to prevent larger criminal networks from waylaying operatives.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com