Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja The Chairman of Bunu Hunters in Suku community, Kabba-Bunu Local Government Area of Kogi State, Caleb Oshe, and his son, Sunday,  were killed by gunmen in the early hours of Tuesday. Our correspondent learnt that the gunmen broke into their home in Suku at about 3am  and opened fire on the duo. Oshe’s daughter Kemi, who was at home when the gunmen invaded the house, said the gangsters demanded money from her father, who was also the chairman of the vigilance group in Suku, immediately they forced their way in. Kemi also said the gunmen removed some items from her shop. She said the hoodlums attacked her father with machetes before shooting him. Governor Yahaya Bello condemned the killing of the hunter and his son, telling the security agencies to arrest those who killed them. Bello spoke in a statement by his Director-General of Media and Publicity to the Governor, Kingsley Fanwo. He said, “I have sworn to protect life and property. It is therefore unacceptable to us as a people for anyone to murder our citizens. Every life is important to us and we will stop at nothing to unmask  the masterminds of the heinous crime.” Following the tension created by the incident in the community, and reports that herdsmen killed Oshe and his son, the governor warned against reprisals. He added, “It is too early to attribute the killing to anyone and no one should take the law into their own hands. The late Caleb Oshe was not only the head of the vigilance group in Suku, he was also the person responsible for logging activities in the community. “Given the centrality of Suku community to the politics and economy of the area, we have no choice but  to allow the  security agencies  to launch a full-scale investigation into the circumstances leading to the crime.” READ ALSO: Neighbours rape, impregnate Katsina woman with mental illness The Speaker of the House of Assembly Matthew Kolawole also condemned the killing in his constituency – Kabba/Bunu. He said the security situation in the country had become worrisome, hence there was a need for the people to be involved in the fight to have a crime-free society.  Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com