ANNA OKON The busy Seme-Idiroko border was on Friday almost deserted as the joint security operation by Nigeria entered its fourth day. Nigeria commenced the exercise code-named Ex Swift Response on Wednesday and it is being carried out by the Nigeria Customs Service, the Nigeria Immigration Service, Nigerian Army, the Nigeria Police Force and other security and intelligence agencies. The spokesperson for the NCS, Joseph Attah, described the exercise as ‘part of measures to secure Nigeria’s land and maritime borders,’ adding that it was being coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser. The exercise, according to him, takes place simultaneously at the borders in four geopolitical zones, namely: South-South, South-West, North-Central and North-West. Through the operation, Nigeria aims to address terrorism, armed banditry, smuggling, proliferation of small arms and light weapons as well as promote inter-agency cooperation. On the second day of the exercise, activities around the busy Seme border were paralysed and thousands of commuters and transit cargoes were stranded. Our correspondent gathered on Friday that transit cargoes were still trapped in Cotonou as the NCS had barred clearing activities from taking place at the border. The presence of stranded commuters that was visible on the first two days however disappeared on Friday, leaving the border with scanty commercial activities. “Nothing is happening,” a clearing agent based in Seme border, Mr Khally Momodu, told our correspondent, adding, “The area is like a ghost town; so empty that one can even play football on the expressway.” Our correspondent learnt that people crossing to and from the border were screened for valid documents before being allowed in or out. Some Nigerians that came into Seme border from Cotonou were not allowed back in without valid documents. Clearing agents had also lamented that the goods that were left behind in Cotonou were perishable goods and would go bad if the joint security exercise took 28 days like the Customs had calculated. “Some of those goods are perishable goods and the Nigerian government has collected duty on them. I don’t know why they are preventing them from coming in,” Momodu lamented. Asked if their Beninoise counterparts were part of the joint border security operation, he replied that the people at Benin were asking questions about the exercise and seeking answers about what was going on. Due to the stringent nature of the checks and restriction of movement of people and cargoes, people concluded that the government had shut the border. Attah however denied that the border had been shut. In an interview with the British Broadcasting Service on Thursday, Attah said people with genuine reasons to leave and enter the country through the border were allowed to move freely. He also explained that it was the joint security exercise that caused movement to slow down and that at no time did the Customs close the border. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 