President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday assigned portfolios to the newly sworn-in ministers. READ ALSO: LIVE UPDATES: Buhari swears in ministers The full list is below: Dr. Ikechukwu Ogah (Abia State) -Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development 2. Mohammed Musa Bello (Adamawa State) -Minister of the Federal Capital Territory 3. Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom State)- Minister of Niger Delta 4. Chris Ngige  (Anambra State)- Minister of Labour and Employment 5. Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra State)-Minister of State Environment 6.Adamu Adamu (Bauchi State) -Minister of Education 7.Ambassador Maryam Katagun (Bauchi State) -Minister of State, Industry, Trade and Investment 8. Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa State) Minister of State, Petroleum under the President 9.George Akume (Benue State) -Minister of Special Duties 10.Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno State) -Minister of State, Agric and Rural Development 11. Goddy  Jedy Agba (Cross River State) -Minister of State, Power 12.Festus Keyamo (Delta State) -Minister of State, Niger Delta 13. Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi State) -Minister of Science and Technology 14. Osagie Ehanire (Edo State) -Minister of Health 15.Clement Ike  (Edo State) -Minister of Budget and National Planning 16. Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti State) -Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment 17. Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu State) -Minister of Foreign Affairs 18.Ali Isa Pantami (Gombe State) -Minister of Communications 19. Emeka Nwajiuba (Imo State) -Minister of State, Education 20. Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa State) -Minister of Water Resources 21. Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna State) -Minister of Finance 22.Muhammad Mahmood (Kaduna State) -Minister of Environment 23.Sabo Nanono (Kano State) -Minister of Agriculture and Development 24.Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano State) -Minister of Defence 25.Hadi Sirika (Katsina State) -Minister of Aviation 26.Abubakar Malami (Kebbi State) -Minister of Justice 27.Ramatu Tijjani (Kogi State) -Minister of State, FCT 28. Lai Mohammed (Kwara State) – Minister of  Information and Culture 29.Gbemisola  Saraki (Kwara State) -Minister of State, Transportation 30.Babatunde Fashola (Lagos State) -Minister of Works and Housing 31.Adeleke Mamora (Lagos State) -Minister of State, Health 32. Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa State) -Minister of State, Science and Technology 33. Zubair Dada (Niger State) -Minister of State, Foreign Affairs 34. Olamilekan Adegbite (Ogun State) -Minister of Mines and Steel development 35. Tayo Alasoadura  (Ondo State) -Minister of State, Labour 36. Rauf Aregbesola (Osun State) -Minister of Interior 37. Sunday Dare (Oyo State) -Minister of Youths and Sports 38.Paulen Talen (Plateau State) -Minister of Women Affairs 39. Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers State) -Minister of Transportation 40. Maigarai Dingyadi (Sokoto State) Minister of Police Affairs 41. Sale  Mamman (Taraba State) -Minister of Power 42. Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe State) -Minister of State for Works and Housing 43. Sadiya Umar Faruk (Zamfara State) -Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development