Ada Wodu, Calabar The Deputy Speaker of the Cross River State House of Assembly, Mr Joseph Bassey, has alleged that a  cabal in the Presidency is responsible for the  allegations  of fraud levelled against the Head of Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita. The HoS was questioned  by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over alleged mismanagement of over N3bn recently. But Bassey, who claimed that the allegations were false, said Oyo-Ita had always exhibited good character and integrity in the civil service. He said, “A  cabal is  operating even without the knowledge of the President and by so doing, they are tarnishing the good name of the President who we all know is a man of integrity. Buhari that we know cannot succumb to this cheap way of blackmailing people. It is not nice. Oyo-Ita was not brought up to steal or to be found bending; that is not her style. “People should stop tagging a dog with a bad name because they want to kill it. What the Head of Service is going through is purely political and I thank the President for his swift response.” Bassey said Oyo-Ita   should be given a chance of fair hearing by the Presidency. The lawmaker added, “First and foremost, if there is anyone I can vouch for that has character and integrity in service, it is Oyo-Ita because I know her track record from her civil service days in Cross River State. President Buhari is a man of integrity and the Head of Service has worked with him while he was in charge of the Petroleum Trust Fund and that was where Buhari built the confidence he has in her.’’ “Even when she was being screened for the position of the Head of Service, she was not found to be corrupt or involved in any financial scandal before. She is a civil servant who loves her career. Oyo-Ita is not a politician. She got to her present position by merit and God’s grace, so we should support her to continue to deliver service to Nigerian populace.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   