Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi, 92, one of the most prominent clerics in Bauchi State, is the Deputy Chairman, Fatwa Committee (Islamic Scholars’ Committee of the Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs in Nigeria). Usman, who is also the leader of Tijjaniyya Movement, shares his life story with ARMSTRONG BAKAM How did you become a Muslim scholar? I am Fulani and I was born on June 28, 1927, which is equivalent to Wednesday 2nd Muharram, 1364 of the Islamic calendar. I schooled under my father’s tutelage or guidance as my teacher, and received or embraced the Tijjaniya Movement through him. My father similarly embraced the movement through one Alhaji Gwani Abba. And it was from my father I learnt to memorise the Holy Quran. Later, my father instructed me to go anywhere and search for more knowledge or further my Quranic education in the land. Based on the advancement of knowledge, I acquired outside my father’s tutelage, some Quranic teachers used to call me ‘Gwani’ or ‘Gangaran’, which means champion or guru. It was in this process that I came across the global leader of the Tijjaniya Movement, named Alhaji Ibrahim Kaulaha, who was a Senegalese. So I followed the sheikh and learnt everything from him; he is a man that is known worldwide. I married my first wife in 1948, and as I am speaking with you now, I am blessed with about 70 children and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren, all of whom are competent in Quranic education. How did you know your date of birth? Well, I grew up with my parents and it was from them that I got to know when I was born. They told me and that was how I knew the year. Who were your parents? My father and mother were Fulani. My father was from Bauchi while my mother was from Gombe, but at that time, both the present day Bauchi and Gombe were not separate states. My father’s name was Alhaji Usman Adam and he was from a village called Kwankiyel, in Darazo Local Government Area of the state. My mother’s name was Maryan Suleiman and she was born at Nafada in the present-day Gombe State. At that time, the first baby of any married woman would be delivered at the mother’s house or mother’s parents’ house, which means that preparatory to the time the woman would give birth, she would have been taken to her parents’ house where she would be delivered of her first baby. So in that respect, I was born at Nafada village, north of Gombe town. READ ALSO: INEC yet to prosecute electoral offenders in Kano What can you remember about growing up? I did my schooling at home; I didn’t leave my house to go to school. I was educated by my father and he even taught me to memorise the Quran. It was later that he sent me into the world to acquire more knowledge. So does it mean you didn’t go through the conventional school system? I didn’t go to school, even A, B, C, D, I didn’t learn. I only attended Islamic schools. Where did you work? I tended to sheep, farmed and attended Quranic schools. I didn’t do government work and I did not work in a company. People who know me always admire me and when they see me with cows in the bush, you hear them talking among themselves. I thank God that I could do all that. Even now, I still do farming and cattle rearing. I have herds of cows; I have large farms in Bauchi, Gombe and other places. What kind of experience did you gain in the places you worked? I enjoyed the experience I had with the people I studied with and those I learnt from. All the people I learnt from are dead now and even some of the people that were my mates have also died. You know that I am approaching 100 years of age. How did you meet your first wife? I married my first wife in 1948 and I have children who have memorised the Quran up to over 70. Later, I got married to other women and I fathered so many children with them. What professions are your children into? For all my children, their first profession is memorisation of the Quran; then farming. But for the small ones, it is when they are grown that they go into the farming business. By the time my child is seven years old, they would have memorised the Quran. In the past, people had to travel to other countries before they could memorise the Quran, but now, they memorise it everywhere. We have over 200 Quran memorisation schools across the country alone and there are other ones in some African countries like Niger, Cameroon, and Ghana. I didn’t go to the conventional school but some of my children are well educated and have become professionals in their chosen fields of human endeavours. Most of my children are Islamic scholars and university lecturers. Some are doctors, like my eldest son, who has passed on. I have Doctor Abubakar and Doctor Pate. I have four doctors in my family and some are also pursuing theirs currently. Some read History, among other professions. What is your favourite song? The song I love the most is called ‘Giwa me Sheikh Ibrahim’. I love this song so much; it has so much meaning to me. What is your favourite food? I eat local Hausa food but what I love the most are foods made from rice; I prefer foods made from rice to the ones made from maize and guinea corn. What more do you want from life at your age? No matter what you enjoy in life when you get to my age, all you do is manage life. I see myself as someone who has put his loads at the park and is waiting for a car to come so that he can put the loads inside. When it’s time to pray, he goes to pray, when it’s time to eat, he eats and returns to where he kept his things which he would take on his journey to the great beyond. Given your age, you saw many governments come and go, both at federal and state levels, what has been your association with these governments in the past and now? Since the time the white man was called a lion (during the colonial administration), I have been mature. My first marriage was in 1948 and I witnessed Nigeria’s independence. I was part of the times of Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and the Sardauna of Sokoto, Ahmadu Bello. I witnessed various military regimes; I associated with them. The way we lived was not like others lived. We used to open our doors wide, if someone felt like coming in, he would come in but if he wanted to pass, he would pass in peace. When were your happiest and saddest moments? There has been no day like the day I memorised the Quran because when I was 14 years old, I wanted to memorise it, but my father said he wanted us to put more efforts into farming and tending to cattle. I spent five years tending to the cattle and memorising the Quran and it was when I was 19 years old that I was able to fully memorise it. For my saddest moments, since everything comes from God when the sad moments come, you forget about them, thank God and depend on God. What advice do you have for the young generation? I will advise them to respect the elderly and honour them and also have concern for the younger ones. I admonish all the youth, including my children and followers, to respect people older than them and show compassion to those younger than them. It is not like what is happening now that young ones, who are not preaching the Quran, will be abusing other clerics. Do you have any advice for the government? The problem is that they don’t listen to advice; our advice or counsel does not matter to them. They have taken the burden of politics and politics is something that brings honour because people want problems to be fixed. The people don’t have the power or money to do it; it is those in power that can do what the people need. There are many problems that the people want to be solved which they want the government to fix for them. These politicians campaign to the people, promising to better their lives and saying they would provide them with basic social amenities, but when they are voted into office, the people are supposed to assess their performance in office. And if they don’t perform, they should not be voted in again; that is what is called politics. I, therefore, call on our leaders to lead with the fear of God and do the right thing for the people that voted them into office. How do you relax? If I am tired, all I want to do is to lie down and sleep. I like to read the Quran. I also sit down with my brothers to talk and have a great time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 