Afeez Hanafi At least six persons lost their lives on Friday in a head-on collision between two commercial buses at the Ogere end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. About 24 persons, including two children, also sustained varying degrees of injury in the crash. City Round learnt that the accident, involving a white Toyota bus with the number plate, ABC 932 XJ and a Mazda bus marked, FST 820 XD, was caused by excessive speeding and dangerous overtaking. It was gathered that the Mazda bus travelling from Lagos left its lane while overtaking and collided with the Toyota bus travelling on the opposite direction of the expressway. The Toyota bus was reportedly coming from Abuja. Officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State Command and policemen were at the scene to clear the obstruction. The FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Clement Oladele, said the crash occurred around 8.30am. He said the crash would have been avoided if motorists had strictly adhered to construction speed of maximum of 50 kilometers per hour and refrained from overtaking around construction zones. He said, “A total number of 30 people made up of 19 male adults, nine female adults, a male child and another female child were involved. Twenty four persons comprising 16 male adults, six female adults, and the two children were injured. Unfortunately, the crash led to the death of six people, three male adults and three female adults.” The sector commander stated that 11 of the injured victims had been taken to Victory Hospital Ogere, while six others were rescued to Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu. “The seven other victims were rescued to the Idera Hospital Sagamu for medical attention. The corpses of the six passengers killed in the crash were deposited at OSUTH Mortuary and FOS Ipara Morgue,” he added. Commiserating with the families of the deceased, Oladele urged members of the public looking for their loved ones to contact the FRSC commands in Ogere and Ogunmakin as well as the hospitals for details. READ ALSO: I had no social life while growing up–Itunu, philanthropist The FRSC commander said there was the need for motorists to remember that the entire stretch of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway remains a construction zone. “Motorists are once again advised to regard construction zones, especially diversion points as areas requiring extra caution with speed not exceeding 50 kilometers per hour. They should also refrain from overtaking at the construction zones to avoid this type of unfortunate crash,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 