13:40: President Buhari and some dignitaries step out of the venue of the swearing-in for a photo session. 13:30: The full list is below: Dr. Ikechukwu Ogah (Abia State) -Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development 2. Mohammed Musa Bello (Adamawa State) -Minister of the Federal Capital Territory 3. Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom State)- Minister of Niger Delta 4. Chris Ngige  (Anambra State)- Minister of Labour and Employment 5. Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra State)-Minister of State Environment 6.Adamu Adamu (Bauchi State) -Minister of Education 7.Ambassador Maryam Katagun (Bauchi State) -Minister of State, Industry, Trade and Investment 8. Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa State) Minister of State, Petroleum under the President 9.George Akume (Benue State) -Minister of Special Duties 10.Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno State) -Minister of State, Agric and Rural Development 11. Goddy  Jedy Agba (Cross River State) -Minister of State, Power 12.Festus Keyamo (Delta State) -Minister of State, Niger Delta 13. Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi State) -Minister of Science and Technology 14. Osagie Ehanire (Edo State) -Minister of Health 15.Clement Ike  (Edo State) -Minister of Budget and National Planning 16. Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti State) -Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment 17. Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu State) -Minister of Foreign Affairs 18.Ali Isa Pantami (Gombe State) -Minister of Communications 19. Emeka Nwajiuba (Imo State) -Minister of State, Education 20. Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa State) -Minister of Water Resources 21. Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna State) -Minister of Finance 22.Muhammad Mahmood (Kaduna State) -Minister of Environment 23.Sabo Nanono (Kano State) -Minister of Agriculture and Development 24.Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano State) -Minister of Defence 25.Hadi Sirika (Katsina State) -Minister of Aviation 26.Abubakar Malami (Kebbi State) -Minister of Justice 27.Ramatu Tijjani (Kogi State) -Minister of State, FCT 28. Lai Mohammed (Kwara State) – Minister of  Information and Culture 29.Gbemisola  Saraki (Kwara State) -Minister of State, Transportation 30.Babatunde Fashola (Lagos State) -Minister of Works and Housing 31.Adeleke Mamora (Lagos State) -Minister of State, Health 32. Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa State) -Minister of State, Science and Technology 33. Zubair Dada (Niger State) -Minister of State, Foreign Affairs 34. Olamilekan Adegbite (Ogun State) -Minister of Mines and Steel development 35. Tayo Alasoadura  (Ondo State) -Minister of State, Labour 36. Rauf Aregbesola (Osun State) -Minister of Interior 37. Sunday Dare (Oyo State) -Minister of Youths and Sports 38.Paulen Talen (Plateau State) -Minister of Women Affairs 39. Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers State) -Minister of Transportation 40. Maigarai Dingyadi (Sokoto State) Minister of Police Affairs 41. Sale  Mamman (Taraba State) -Minister of Power 42. Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe State) -Minister of State for Works and Housing 43. Sadiya Umar Faruk (Zamfara State) -Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development 13: 24: Buhari announces portfolios of newly sworn-in ministers. 13: 20: Work closely with Permanent Secretaries and CEO of your ministries. Work in harmony with fellow ministers. Buhari reiterates that all submissions needing his attentions should be channelled through the Chief of Staff He says “All submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff, while all Fed. Executive Council matters be coordinated through the SGF. that all submission in order to speed up process of decision-making.” 13: 18: Two million Nigerians enter the workforce every year, says Buhari. 13: 17: I believe that you’re ready to get to work, Buhari tells newly sworn-in ministers 13: 10: Mustapha announces the demise of Special Assistant (General Duties) to the President Buhari. A minute of silence is observed and prayers said. 13: 07: Boss Mustapha addresses the newly sworn-in ministers.  He asks them to familiarise themselves with designated ministries. He adds that they would have two weeks to revise Ministerial Mandate with the Permanent Secretary of their respective ministries. 13:01: The final three ministers designate; Sale Mamman (Taraba State), Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe State), and  Sadiya Umar Faruk (Zamfara State) take oath of office. 12: 58: Femi Adesina reads the citations for the last three ministers designate. 12: 57: Femi Adesina says President Buhari would unveil portfolios of ministers in his speech after the swearing-in. Before then, the SGF, Boss Mustapha will share some important information. 12: 49: The eighth batch of ministers designate including Rauf Aregbesola (Osun State), Sunday Dare (Oyo State), Paulen Talen (Plateau State), Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers State) and Maigarai Dingyadi (Sokoto State) take oath of office. 12: 43: Femi Adesina reads citations for the eighth batch of ministers designate. 12:35: Babatunde Fashola (Lagos State), Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa State), Zubair Dada (Niger State), Olamilekan Adegbite (Ogun State) and Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo State) take oath of office. 12: 29: Adesina read citations for the seventh batch of ministers designate. 12: 23: Ministers designate take oath of office. They include Abubakar Malami (Kebbi State), Ramatu Tijjani (Kogi State), Lai Mohammed (Kwara State), Gbemisola  Saraki (Kwara State) and Adeleke Mamora (Lagos State). 12:20: Femi Adesina, while reading Ramatu Tijjani’s citation, reveals that she was born on June 12. This fact elicits laughter. 12:11: The ministers designate take oath of office. They include Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna State), Muhammad Mahmood (Kaduna State), Sabo Nanono (Kano State), Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano State) and Hadi Sirika (Katsina State). 12:05: Femi Adesina reads citations for the fifth batch of ministers designate to be sworn in. 11: 57: The fourth batch of ministers designate; Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti State), Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu State), Ali Isa Pantami (Gombe State), Emeka Nwajiuba (Imo State) and Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa State) proceed to take oath of office. 11: 51: Femi Adesina reads citations for next batch of ministers designate to be sworn in. 11: 47: The newly sworn-in ministers sign register. 11: 45: The third batch of ministers designate take oath of office. They include Goddy  Jedy Agba (Cross River State), Festus Keyamo (Delta State), Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi State), Osagie Ehanire (Edo State) and Clement Ike  (Edo State). 11: 43: Femi Adesina reads the citations for the third batch of ministers designate. Adamu Adamu (Bauchi State), Ambassador Maryam Katagun (Bauchi State), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa State), George Akume (Benue State) and Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno State) sworn in. The second batch of ministers designate take oath of office. President Muhammadu Buhari’s media aide, Femi Adesina, reads the citation for the second batch of ministers designate to be sworn in, starting with former Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu. These ministers take oath of office: Dr. Ikechukwu Ogah (Abia State), Mohammed Musa Bello (Adamawa State), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom State), Chris Ngige  (Anambra State) reappointment, and Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra State) sworn in. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha sworn in first after his citation was read. Ministers designate are currently being sworn in at the Aso Rock Villa.