Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri There was panic in Agbala in the Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State on Tuesday after a Fulani herdsman stabbed another following a quarrel. The attacker was also stabbed by other herders, who were alerted to the incident by a witness. The two herders, who were rushed to the emergency unit of the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri, owing to the severity of the injuries they sustained, were rescued by the villagers. A community source told our correspondent that the incident, which occurred on Monday night, would have degenerated if not that another herder witnessed the drama. The source said, “This issue would have degenerated if not that another Fulani herdsman witnessed it. “What happened was that a Fulani herdsman had gone into the bush, where his kinsman and his cows were staying. While the man in the bush was sleeping, his kinsman stabbed him mercilessly and left with the victim’s cows thinking that he was dead. “However, another Fulani herdsman, who was in the bush, quickly alerted the other herdsmen. They monitored his movement until reinforcement arrived. The other herders first recovered the stolen cows before stabbing him repeatedly. READ ALSO: Six apprehended for killing tanker driver in Niger “It was the villagers, who alerted the police. The man was rescued and the two victims were rushed to the emergency unit of the FMC, Owerri.” The source said it would be a miracle if the two survive as their conditions were said to be critical. The development caused a gridlock on the Owerri-Aba Road. The police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said the two herders were responding to treatment in hospital. According to him, policemen from the Agbala Police Division rushed the herders to hospital following a distress call from the villagers. Ikeokwu added that the herdsmen had a disagreement over cows. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com