Feyisayo Popoola A business supply chain starts with the sale of a product. If you sell a thing to a customer, you have started a supply chain and that supply chain impacts almost every other business function. Supply chain management is not just the management of product, it is also the management of information, time and money. Supply chain management doesn’t start when you order a product from your suppliers. You should be managing your product supply when your suppliers are sourcing their supplies. That’s called Tier II supplier management. If your suppliers are not practising supply chain management with their suppliers, your own supply chain performance will suffer. That is why so many in the supply chain management field practice Tier II supplier management. How can one then influence Tier II suppliers? The answer takes us back to what supply chain management is. It is the management of product flow, information, time and money, and for Tier II supplier management, “information” is one of the key performance drivers. The information your Tier II suppliers need is the demand information that you’ve provided to your suppliers — whether that’s forecasts are firm orders. Your Tier II supplier can use that information to do its own capacity planning and raw materials buys (i.e. practise its own supply chain management). By ensuring your Tier II suppliers have what they need in order to deliver on time and cost effectively to your suppliers, you are on your way to optimising your supply chain. Supplier management Supplier management is what most people perceive supply chain management to mean. And, truly, this is where a lot of supply chain managers spend their time. The arena of supplier management includes the cost of goods negotiations, on-time delivery management, quality audits and management, new product development — to name a few areas of focus. Your supply chain team will work with your suppliers’ customer service teams, engineering teams, quality teams and even supply chain teams. Just like your customers probably measure your performance, it’s important that you and your suppliers work together to determine the right metrics to measure their performance. On-time delivery is the most common metric that’s measured, but make sure that you and your suppliers understand the precise definition of on-time delivery that you’ll be measuring. On-time delivery isn’t as black-and-white as some might think. There are original promised delivery dates’ that can (and often) change during an order’s lifetime. So, are you measuring on-time delivery performance against the original promised date or subsequent revised promised dates? Make sure you and your supplier’s are aligned. Also, are you measuring the dock date or the ship date? Oftentimes that will depend on the payment terms you’ve negotiated with your supplier. If your payment terms are Freight on Board Plant, for instance, that means you’re responsible for the shipping method once the product leaves your supplier’s plant. In that case, your on-time delivery metric would likely be based on the ship date. However, if your payment terms are CIF, i.e. your supplier pays for the cost, insurance and freight to deliver it to you — then your on-time metrics would likely be based on date the shipment arrives at your dock. Logistics Logistics and supply chain aren’t the same things. Logistics is the management of the movement of goods whereas supply chain management covers the many other areas we’re discussing here. But logistics is a part of supply chain and that means whoever manages your supply chain will be responsible for managing freight forwarders, shipping companies, parcel delivery companies (like Fedex and UPS), customs brokers and third party logistics providers. Logistics providers should be managed in the same way that you manage your suppliers. Costs and contracts can be negotiated. You can source freight forwarders the same way you would source suppliers of the products you need. Shipping and warehousing costs can be one of the largest expenses in your supply chain and it’s critical that your logistics providers are measured and managed to control those costs. Inventory And speaking of one of the largest expenses in your supply chain, we now come to inventory. The difference between paying for logistics and paying for inventory is that when you incur the expense for logistics — you’ve received that benefit. A logistics provider ships something to you and you pay for it. You’ve incurred the expense for a service rendered. But inventory is a double-edged sword. Often, you’ll pay your suppliers for your inventory and you’ll have the product you just paid for — but you haven’t received the benefit of that product. That benefit comes when you sell it. And that’s where the inventory management aspect of supply chain management becomes critical. The supply chain management conundrum: You need product to sell to your customers but you won’t have those products until you incur the expense of acquiring that product. You need to have enough inventory on hand to supply your customers what they want, when they want it — but you can’t have too much inventory on hand or you will have paid (possibly) too much money out of pocket. There’s the added risk that you can build too much inventory. Because your suppliers might have minimum order quantities or because you thought you would sell more than you did or because something changed in the marketplace — you might end up paying for inventory that you can never sell. Let’s say you sell cases for smartphones. And, not long ago, you acquired 100,000 pc of an iPhone 5 case that you planned to sell to Apple, Verizon and the other iPhone accessory retailers. And after you sold 10,000 of them, Apple launched the iPhone 6. And suddenly there was no market for your iPhone 5 cases. Too much inventory. Money you spent that will never be recouped. Inventory is a terrible balancing act. You need enough, but not too much,— and you have to make the decision on how much to acquire based on reliable information. Leave it to the supply chain management professionals. Purchasing Although it’s common to believe that supply chain is purchasing, that’s not accurate. Purchasing is part of supply chain management, but it’s not the totality of all that supply chain management is. Issuing an RFQ, choosing the lowest priced supplier and cutting a purchase order does not constitute strategic supply chain management — although it’s important for the day-to-day operations of your company. Buyers and purchasing managers can grow into supply chain professionals, but it takes an understanding that the transactional activity of purchasing is only a small slice of what supply chain management is. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com