’Femi Asu The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board has inaugurated a Community Interface Committee for the Nigerian Oil and Gas Park Scheme located in the Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. The committee, according to a statement, was set up to enhance the interface between the communities, the contractors and the NCDMB. It said the committee would ensure community participation, cordial relationship and promote compliance with the community-content elements of the project. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr Simbi Wabote, inaugurated the committee recently during a town hall meeting held to formally introduce the contractors that would execute the approved work scope on the industrial park. He said the committee would ensure favourable environment for the execution of the contracts awarded for the development of the park. “The board deemed it fit to constitute a committee made up of representatives of the communities, the contractors and the board,” Wabote said. He announced that a monarch, Jephthah Wolisi, would serve as the chairman of the committee. Other members are representatives of the host communities, contractors and the NCDMB, while Mr Kelly Olaye of the NCDMB will serve as the secretary, according to the statement. It said the committee’s existence would terminate at the completion of the project or whenever the management of the NCDMB felt that their services was no longer required. Wabote commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the next phase of the project, which he said entailed the key infrastructure for the NOGaPS site. He said the Federal Government was impressed with the harmonious way the contractors had been working with the community since the commencement of the project. He disclosed that Messrs OK Isokariari & Sons would be responsible for the road construction and capacity building centre, which when completed would be a technical skill development centre at the park. According to him, MegaStar Construction Company Nigeria Limited is responsible for the construction of security and administrative block and hostel/mini estate. Wabote said the project would be successfully completed “if there is maximum cooperation between the communities, the contractors and the NCDMB.” Responding on behalf of the contractors, the Chief Executive, MegaStar Construction Company Nigeria, Mr Harcourt Adukeh, commended Wabote for the initiative. He appealed to the communities to stick to the terms of reference in providing workforce for the project and not short-change qualified indigenes in the area. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com