Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has begun investigations into   the Federal Government’s projects abandoned  since 1999 by the Federal Government. An ad hoc committee set up by the House to probe abandoned  projects in the communications sector, including the Closed Circuit Television camera projects, held its inaugural meeting in Abuja on Wednesday. Chairman of the committee, Mr Chukwuma Umeoji,  said  the  parliament would prosecute those behind the failed projects. Umeoji  said  the mandate given the panel included investigating  abandoned FG’s projects from 1999 till date to find out the costs and the period the contracts were awarded as well as the level of completion and issues frustrating the projects. He said, Ministries, departments, agencies, parastatals, commissions and boards awarded contracts for the execution of several capital projects since the nation returned to democratic rule in 1999. “Many of these projects have been abandoned even as many of them (contractors) have received advance payments of not less than 50 per cent of the contract sums. Government has spent billions of naira on such contracts without the government and the people getting value for the money spent so far. “It is instructive to note that if the nation is to have a meaningful development in terms of infrastructure and social services, there is an  urgent need for a change in the manner of award of contracts for and the execution of capital projects.” The lawmaker said they would invite all stakeholders and call for memorandums to help them in their investigations. According to him,   the  ministries of communications and science and technology, as well as the  Nigerian Communications Commission, National Information Technology Development Agency, Nigerian Postal Service, Nigerian Satellite Communications Satellite and Galaxy Backbone  are among the ministries and agencies invited. Umeoji also said  the contractors would be invited  by the panel. A member of the committee, Mr Adigun Adekunle, said they had compiled the list of the abandoned projects. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com