Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ilorin Zonal office, has arrested three legal practitioners for using documents purportedly from the court to defraud one Pastor Adetunji Adedoyin of his property valued at about N20m. The EFCC, in a statement by its Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, gave the names of the suspects as Salman Rafiu, Sulyman Abaya and Saka Hammed. The statement said two other suspects, Olarewaju Aluko and Na’Allah Suyuti, are on the run. The statement said Adedoyin alleged that the suspects fraudulently obtained a court order by false representation and sold the property without his consent. The EFCC quoted Adedoyin as saying, “I was informed that I was served summons all through the court proceedings, whereas it was R. A. Salman, who picked and arranged his colleagues, Abaya Sulyman and Saka Hammed, to stand for me and these lawyers forged my signature on some documents purporting that I consented to the sale of my hostel. “The truth of the matter is, I never set my eyes on these people prior to or during the court proceedings, neither did I participate directly or indirectly in the proceedings. I also was not aware of the proceedings from the beginning to the end. READ ALSO: Faces behind deal that landed Nigeria in $9.6bn mess “Earlier in 2016, after seeking advice on what to do, I engaged a lawyer, Victor Okojie, to obtain  justice for me, because all attempts I had made failed. Okojie later linked me with the buyer, Mr Na’Allah, and his lawyer, Ayodele Aluko Olarewaju, who felt my pain, and explained that he had expended about N12.5m on the acquisition of my property; he said he was willing to release it only if I could pay back the money.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 