Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Poor funding and breaking of environmental laws may worsen the menace of floods across the country; the National Emergency Management Agency, the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency and the National Water Research Institute have said. According to them, the failure by individuals and organisations to abide by stipulated environmental laws in their respective states and the lack of funds for flood control and management may worsen the devastation caused by floods in the country. NIHSA had said that Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba, Kaduna and Rivers may see high level of flooding. Others states the agency identified as vulnerable include Delta, Lagos, Abia, Edo, Oyo, Kebbi, Federal Capital Territory and Cross River states. Flooding had already been reported in some of the states this year. The agencies stated that floods might cause more devastation in Nigeria in the coming weeks if citizens failed to strictly abide by stipulated environmental laws. They told our correspondent in Abuja that thorough enforcement of environmental laws across the country was one of the most potent measures needed to avert the impending menace of flooding. According to them, the menace caused by floods can be adequately mitigated when individuals in any given community obey laid-down environmental regulations. The PUNCH had reported that several states across the country would be hit by floods from eight nations, based on findings by NIHSA. On how to effectively mitigate the effect of the impending floods, NIHSA’s Acting Director, Operational Hydrology, Aishatu Ibrahim, said it was vital to enforce environmental laws. She disclosed this in a presentation on the agency’s 2019 Annual Flood Outlook, which was made available to our correspondent in Abuja. Ibrahim said, “There is need for attitudinal and behavioural changes. Also importantly, legislation should be enforced. There is a need for enforcement and review of environmental laws.” The Director-General, NIHSA, Clement Nze, urged states and local governments to remove structures built within floodplains, clear blocked drainages, culverts and other waterways. The Director-General, National Emergency Management Agency, Mustapha Maihaja, said enforcement of environmental laws had become vital. Maihaja, who spoke in Abuja at the recent national workshop on flood risk mitigation, preparedness and response for 2019, urged Nigerians to stop erecting structures on water channels, adding that the enforcement of environmental laws would help stop such acts. Maihaja said such funds would, among other things, be used to work on the dams across the country and ensure adequate channelling of flood water to the dams. The Director-General, National Water Research Institute, Emmanuel Adani, also explained that strict adherence to environmental laws would ensure proper channelling of flood water to river basins and from the basins to dams. Adani, noted that the water in dams could be utilised for socio-economic purposes such as hydropower, irrigation, among others. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com