Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has dismissed and charged four policemen for killing two disarmed phone thieves. The cops, Inspector Fabiyi Omomayara, Sergeant Olaniyi Solomon, Sergeant Solomon Sunday and Corporal Aliyu Mukaila, were arraigned before a Lagos State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ebute Meta on Thursday for conspiracy and murder. PUNCH Metro had reported that a video posted on the social media showed the moment the cops, who were attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad from the Iba Division’s patrol team shot dead the two disarmed suspected phone thieves. According to the report, the video showed the two suspects handcuffed to each other as a policeman approached with a third suspect. The man filming the action was heard identifying the suspects as he gloated over their arrest. “You go collect; you go collect.” He said in Pidgin English as he filmed the suspects, adding that they had a gun. A sudden gunshot followed. The third suspect was shown writhing in pain on the floor of a yellow minibus that appeared to have been hired for the police operation. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Thursday that an orderly room trial found the cops guilty of discreditable conduct, unlawful and unnecessary exercise of authority and damage to an article. According to Elkana, the policemen were dismissed and subsequently arraigned before the court. He said, “It will be recalled that the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Zubairu Muazu, ordered the arrest of the four policemen involved in the extrajudicial killing of two unarmed suspects in Iba. “The policemen were subjected to internal disciplinary proceedings at the Provost Department. They were tried on three counts of discreditable conduct, unlawful and unnecessary exercise of authority, and damage to article. “The four policemen were found guilty and awarded the punishment of dismissal from service and prosecution. They were subsequently handed over to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, for prosecution in a conventional court. “The four suspects, ex-Inspector Fabiyi Omomayara, ex-Sergeant Olaniyi Solomon, ex-Sergeant Solomon Sunday and ex-Corporal Aliyu Mukaila, were on Thursday, August 22, 2019, arraigned before the Magistrates’ Court 5, Ebute Meta, for conspiracy and murder, and were remanded in the Ikoyi Prison. “The case was adjourned till September 23, 2019, for the Director of Public Prosecutions’ advice. This will serve as a deterrent to others.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com