Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt A group of Ogoni youths has called on the Federal Government to appeal the court ruling, which ordered it (FG) to renew the licence of Shell Petroleum Development Company for the operation of OML11 for the next 20 years. The youths, who spoke under the aegis of Ogoni Youth Development Initiative, expressed dissatisfaction over the judgment, adding that it was not in the interest of the host communities. In a statement issued on Tuesday by their President, Oscar Imeabe, the group maintained that the oil firm was not in a good relationship with Ogoni host communities. “We reject in its entirety the ruling of the Federal High Court in Abuja which mandated the Federal Government to renew the licence of Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, to return to operate Oil Mining Lease 11 for a period of 20 years. “This decision is not only ill-fated, it is aimed at causing more chaos and creating more problems in the oil rich Ogoniland. “We are urging the Federal Government to quickly appeal the ruling of the High Court to ensure that the judgment is quashed in the interest of the Ogoni people. We do not need Shell again,” the statement read in part. The group, however, promised to support the Federal Government to ensure a reversal of the judgement at the Appeal Court, insisting that Ogoni people had the right to decide who operated in their communities. “We, the Ogoni, have seared relationship with Shell. So, we do not have space for the SPDC to operate in our environment again. The Ogoni people, following their activities, had declared Shell persona non grata in Ogoniland. “We have the right of first refusal. If the licence should be released, it should be given to an indigenous company, Ogoni Petroleum Company Limited, which has a better template on the development of Ogoni communities. “In the face of strained relationship between Shell and Ogoni, the FG should consider granting equity participation to the OPCL to heal the wounds inflicted on the Ogoni people by Shell and the military junta of late Gen. Sani Abacha. This will guarantee peace and give the people a sense of belonging,” the statement further read. Recall that a High Court in Abuja recently ordered the Petroleum minister to renew the licence of Shell to operate the OML11 for the next 20 years. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    