John Ameh and Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The embattled Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, has resumed work after she took some days off to attend to her health. Oyo-Ita is currently in the eye of the storm after the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission questioned her over alleged N3bn bribery, duty tour allowance falsification and fraud case. Apart from staying away from her office after her encounter with EFCC operatives, she was also absent at the two-day retreat organised for ministers and other senior government officials on Monday and Tuesday. The development fuelled speculations that she had sent a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, indicating her desire to proceed on voluntary retirement. The Presidency, however, said it was not in possession of such letter. Oyo-Ita  made a surprise appearance at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday during the inauguration of the ministers. One of our correspondents learnt that shortly after the inauguration, Oyo-Ita returned to her office at the Federal Secretariat Complex located at the Three Arms Zone to attend to official matters. She also returned to the office on Thursday morning. One of our correspondents, who was at her office on Thursday morning, observed that all the cars in her convoy were parked in her parking lot. She was said to be busy in her office and was not ready to attend to anybody who did not have earlier appointment with her. At about 11am , her police orderly came downstairs to the parking lot and was driven away in her staff car. He had not returned to the premises before our correspondent left. The Director of Communication at the office of the HCSF, Mrs Olawunmi Ogunmosunle, confirmed to The PUNCH that Oyo-Ita returned to her office after the inauguration of ministers on Wednesday. “After leaving the Presidential Villa where she witnessed the swearing-in (on Wednesday), she came straight to the office. Today (Thursday), she has resumed in her office again,” Ogunmosunle said. Meanwhile, the Presidency insisted on Thursday that it had no knowledge that Oyo-Ita tendered any resignation letter to the President. The PUNCH sought the Presidency’s confirmation on the speculation that Oyo-Ita might have returned to work because Buhari allegedly rejected her resignation, pending the outcome of the EFCC’s investigation. But the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, insisted that the Presidency was not aware that Oyo-Ita earlier resigned. “Our position is still the same. We are not aware of any letter of resignation,” he said. During the inauguration of the ministers on Wednesday, she sat close to the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, for the duration of the event and was quiet for most of the time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com