Ife Ogunfuwa Analysts at PricewaterhouseCoopers have seen digital skills shortage in Nigeria and other African countries as a major impediment for organisations that are willing to implement digital transformation. The PwC in a new study of private businesses on the continent observed that 36 per cent of business leaders in Africa admitted that they lacked the required people to achieve the full benefits of digital transformation. As result of the skills gaps, the majority of firms in West Africa said inadequate skills gap had led to significant revenue losses in the report entitled ‘Time to act: The key to private business growth in Africa is digitalisation’. The PwC said it gathered insights from 200 private businesses from nine sub-Saharan African countries and over 2,000 private businesses leaders in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. “Losses are especially high West Africa, where 82 per cent of the companies report losses (78 per cent in southern and East Africa). When it comes to digital efforts, 36 per cent of leaders surveyed felt they lacked the right in-house talent to realise the full benefits. More than half seek to make up for the deficit by turning to external advice,” the report stated. The consulting firm said that despite significant unemployment in countries such as South Africa, Namibia and Botswana, the majority of private businesses in the region (nearly 80 per cent) said the lack of suitably skilled workers undercut revenue, while 15 per cent estimated significant losses of more than 10 per cent. The PwC advised that in order to quickly find technical expertise, private businesses might need to collaborate with start-ups. The firm urged private business leaders to clearly distinguish between short-term and long-term hiring needs. “Sales experts (46 per cent) are most in demand across Africa, with engineers and technicians among those also in demand. Digital experts were more in demand (27 per cent) than upper management,” the company said. The most preferred source of funding for digital transformation, according to the report, are internal resources at 64 per cent while 24 per cent of the African private business leaders preferred funds from private equity. Analysts at the PwC said, “Most leaders (68 per cent) will use internal cash flow to fund digitalisation, just like the majority of entrepreneurs surveyed elsewhere. Roughly one in four says they will turn to banks for funding. Both strategies may prove insufficient given the investment required for digital transformation. “Despite the vital role private businesses play in Africa – Small and Medium-sized Enterprises account for roughly 90 per cent of all companies and supply nearly 80 per cent of jobs – many face financing shortfalls. This hampers their ability to innovate and reach their full potential,” the PwC said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 