Sunday Aborisade, Friday Olokor, Leke Baiyewu, Ihuoma Chiedozie and Chidiebube Okeoma The leadership of the Senate has described as shameful, the attack on the immediate past deputy president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. Ekweremadu, who was to give a keynote address at the Second Igbo Annual Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo in Germany, was attacked by some persons, who identified themselves as members of the Indigenous People of Biafra. In separate statements on Sunday, President of the Senate,  Ahmad Lawan; his deputy,  Ovie Omo -Agege; and the Chief Whip,  Orji Uzor Kalu, condemned the action. The Senate President said, “It is incredibly absurd for anybody to blame the distinguished senator for the violent criminal activities in his home base, the purported reason cited by the mob for the bewildering attack. “Senator Ekweremadu, like all his distinguished colleagues in the 9th Senate, is concerned about the insecurity and other challenges in that area and other parts of Nigeria. “He has also been at the forefront of the patriotic efforts to find lasting solutions to the challenges. “The barbaric attack on Senator Ekweremadu at a forum to which he was invited to contribute to charting a course for the progress and happiness of Ndigbo debases our values as civilised people. “It is most reprehensible and should be condemned by all right-thinking Nigerians,” Lawan said. Also, Omo-Agege said the act was “not only a dastardly exportation of irrationality but an aggressive international affront against the image of Igbo and Nigeria.” He expressed shock over the “undeserved assault” and called on law enforcement agencies in Germany to investigate and bring to book all those involved in the vicious attack. He said, “What they did is not only a violent assault against the good image of the Igbo race across the world but an aggressive attack against the traditional norms of a people known to be hardworking and respectful of meaningful contributions by leaders such as Senator Ekweremadu. “Such criminal attack, along with other anti-social attempt to accuse, condemn and lynch anyone remains utterly condemnable and illegal, notwithstanding whether it takes place on Nigerian or foreign soil as it is the easiest invitation to anomie,” Omo-Agege stated. In his own reaction, Kalu  described the action of the mob as uncivilized, unacceptable and barbaric. Kalu noted that the only way the South-East region could be prosperous was by embracing dialogue, peace and unity. He said, “After watching a viral video of the physical attack on former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweramadu, I was not only disappointed but irritated and disturbed with the action of some members of IPOB. “The perpetrators of the uncivilized act must face the wrath of the law,” Kalu added. Attack, a sacrilege, reprehensible – Abaribe The Minority Leader of the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe, described as reprehensible and utterly sacrilegious,  the attack on Ekweremadu, by IPOB in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. Abaribe, in a statement on Sunday, condemned the act and noted that the attackers were obviously ignorant of the prevailing situation at home. Abaribe described the attitude of the IPOB members “as a brazen show of ingratitude to a man who has been at the forefront in the struggle for all that is good for the Igbo race.” The Minority leader said he and the entire minority caucus in the Senate were appalled by the very nauseating attack on Ekweremadu for no reason whatsoever. “We condemn it,” Abaribe said. The leader of the opposition in the red chamber noted that he and Ekweremadu stuck out their necks to arrange and stand as surety for the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu. He said, “Obviously this is not how to repay a man, an outstanding leader of men, an unpretentious Igbo leader. “It is unfortunate. The perpetrators of the attack should know that as Igbo, we respect elders and reverence our leaders. “The unwaranted attack is not the character of the Igbo. This is un-Igbo.” Attack, a show of ingratitude – Reps leader The Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Toby Okechukwu, has criticised the IPOB for the assault on Ekweremadu, describing it as a show of shame and ingratitude. In a statement from Germany on Sunday, Okechukwu, who accompanied Ekweremadu to the event, said he was particularly saddened that such magnitude of indiscretion was meted out to “a humble but rugged fighter, who has practically stuck out his neck in defence of Ndi’gbo and was very instrumental to securing the release of IPOB leader,  Nnamadi Kanu.” Okechukwu said, “The claim by IPOB that they attacked Ekweremadu for instigating Python Dance flies in the face of logic as the distinguished senator was one of the vocal voices against military siege to the South-East as well as the extrajudicial crackdown on unarmed IPOB protesters. “This is a man whose official guest house was raided by security agents in 2017 in purported search for phantom IPOB arms and ammunition. “IPOB’s conduct is ingratitude of the highest degree, especially given the roles which even IPOB admitted in a statement of gratitude back then that Ekweremadu played in securing the release of Nnamdi Kanu.” Okechukwu, who represents Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State, stated that Ekweremadu was not only in Germany to attend the cultural festival and convention, but was there to also engage the Igbo in Germany on developments back home as well as network for foreign investments in the South-East to boost the region’s economy and create employment for the youth. Why we attacked Ekweremadu – IPOB Members of the IPOB have slammed Ekweremadu, for putting on an ‘ isi-agu ‘ dress that was decorated with the Nigerian Coat of Arms at a New Yam Festival organised by the Igbo community in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. The black isi-agu he was putting on was torn to shreds by the irate pro-Biafra activists during the attack. The isi-agu , a dress worn by Igbo people on special occasions, is usually red or black in colour, with images of several heads of a snarling, fierce lion spotted all over it. Isi-agu literally translates as ‘head of a lion’, or ‘lion’s head’, in Igbo Language. However, the particular ‘isi-agu’ that Ekweremadu wore at the ill-fated Nuremberg festival had images of the Coat of Arms in place of the traditional lion head. In an audio clip that was made available to our correspondent by IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, on Sunday, some unidentified members of the group rained abuses on Ekweremadu for putting on the Coat of Arms-decorated isi-agu. An IPOB member, who said he is a native of Enugu State but based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, said the former Deputy Senate President’s decision to wear that version of isi-agu was provocative and disgraceful. Speaking in Igbo, the man said, “How can Ekweremadu put on isi-agu dress with Nigerian Coat of Arms and came all the way from Nigeria to Germany to attend an Igbo New Yam festival? “We have been crying out about the killing and subjugation of our people in Nigeria by the Nigerian government; we have been talking about the atrocities being committed against our defenceless brothers and sisters back home by Fulani herdsmen who have been emboldened by the Federal Government, yet Ekweremadu was insensitive enough to put on isi-agu with Nigerian Coat of Arms to address Ndigbo at an Igbo gathering in Germany. “That is disgraceful, it is unacceptable. There is fire in Igboland and he is parading as an Igbo leader with Federal Government clothes.” “Those of us in the Diaspora are not happy with what is going on back home and you are provoking us further. Ekweremadu, you are not a true son of Biafra,” the IPOB members added in the audio clip. The Dubai-based IPOB member hailed the group’s members in Germany for the attack on the former Deputy Senate President, who is currently in his fifth term as the senator representing Enugu West. The clip ended with a warning on Ekweremadu to avoid coming to Dubai for any purpose. “What happened in Germany will be child’s play compared to what will happen in Dubai. If you feel you are powerful, come to Dubai, we are waiting for you,” the voice in the audio clip warned. Attack, wake-up call for Igbo politicians – Ohanaeze youths The Ohanaeze Youths Council has described as a “wake-up call for Igbo politicians” the attack on Ekweremadu, in Germany by members of the IPOB. A statement issued in Owerri, the Imo state capital on Sunday by OYC president, Igboayaka Igboayaka, said though the attack on Ekweremadu was not fair, it depicted the level of hunger, injustice and marginalisation in Nigeria. He said the attack was a call for politicians in the zone to start taking issues of governance seriously. Igboayaka said the politicians had pushed the masses to the wall and taken them for granted. “The attack portrays the level of hunger, injustice, marginalisation and dissatisfaction of the dispositions of the ruling class on citizens which calls for improved representation by the political leaders. This is always obtainable in an atmosphere whereby the masses are disengaged from the political class who take leadership for granted, only to satisfy their own personal goals while abandoning the people to live in penury,” he said. Attack barbaric, says Uwajumogu The chairman, Senate Committee on Labour, Employment and Productivity, Benjamin Uwajumogu, has faulted the attack on  Ekeremadu by members of the IPOB. While describing the incident as “shocking, barbaric and does not reflect the civilised cultural values of the Ndigbo nation”, the lawmaker representing Imo North Senatorial District, in a statement on Sunday warned the IPOB members against being used by selfish individuals to embarrass Igbo leaders anywhere around the world. He said, “This (attack on Ekweremadu) is not what we stand for as Ndigbo. It is far from it. Ndigbo represent civility in all spheres and that accounts for our presence in virtually every community in the globe. This action of IPOB is detestable, barbaric and shameful to say the least.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com