Sampson Itode A civil society organisation, the Centre for Environment, Human Rights and Development, has advocated the amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act to accommodate human right concerns, as well as women consultations during EIA. The group lamented that EIAs carried out in Nigeria excluded human right concerns and women during consultations even though the environment directly affects the women too. The organisation noted that it was imperative the National Assembly amend the existing Act to forestall further cases of agitations over alleged youths and women marginalisation in communities. Speaking with journalists on Saturday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the Head, Environment and Conservation Unit, Centre for Environment, Human Right and Development, Dr Kabari Sam, said the laws regulating EIAs needed to be reviewed to be more robust. He said, “We have reviewed existing EIA laws in Nigeria and have observed that we need a more comprehensive and robust law to cater to the different aspects of projects impacts in the Niger Delta and Nigeria. “The EIAs conducted in Nigeria are very narrow because they do not consider human rights, gender and social impacts. Therefore, we are advocating that the scope be broadened to include these other aspects.” Sam noted that the group in its push for the amendment of the Act had earlier approached the 8th Assembly and still intended to approach the 9th Assembly over the same issue. A member of the Rivers State Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Dr Henry Ashiri, said from the sensitisation, the ministry had noticed the need for the amendment of the Act to accommodate the women and human rights concerns, both at the initiation and completion stages. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 