Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti has banned the use of English language as a means of communication during any traditional events hosted by the state. The governor, who gave the directive on Monday in Ado-Ekiti during the First Ekiti State Arts and Culture Stakeholders’ Forum, said it had become an offence for anyone to communicate in English language during traditional events. Fayemi, who was represented by the Head of Service, Mr Deji Ajayi, at the event with the theme,  Arts and Culture for Economic Prosperity, said over 19,000 applicants had applied for the 1,100 primary school teaching jobs advertised by the State Universal Basic Education Board. The governor said his administration was desirous of promoting arts and culture in the state through Yoruba and Ekiti dialect, saying this would make the step imperative at this point in time. Fayemi, who was represented at the event by Ajayi, revealed that the state would hold its Festival of Arts and Culture in December as part of the ways to boost its economy. “From today, henceforth, the government has banned the speaking of English in any cultural programme. Whoever that will participate in any traditional programme must speak Yoruba or our dialect. “We are going to organise Ekiti State Festival of Arts and Culture in December this year to enhance our capacities in crafts, dancing, weaving and other vocational areas of arts. “We should not forget to teach our children those values that will make Ekiti to remember their heritage and sustain our culture as people.” Fayemi said government would build a new traditional rulers’ Secretariat for monarchs in the state to make them more active and functional. The wife of the governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, urged scholars in the field of history and theatre arts, who are indigenes of the state, to document Ekiti heritage to preserve it for future references. The Director-General of the Ekiti State Arts and Culture, Mr Wale Ojo- Lanre, assured the people that government was committed to the promotion of all cultural festivals in the state to enhance productivity and for economic gains. Ojo-Lanre also called for support for the ailing Ekiti born theatre artist, Chief Ojo Arowosafe, popular known as Fadeyi Oloro and others, who are currently being afflicted by certain sicknesses for the sake of posterity. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 