Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja It is natural for entrepreneurs who are managing small businesses to wish that their ventures expand. There are many ways small businesses can grow and expand. It is therefore important for an entrepreneur to know and apply some of these measures in order to grow his or her small business. As an entrepreneur, you should often try and conduct helpful research. Most big businesses have carved out their own corner of the market. Experts at smallbiztrends.com note that a certain beverage company, for instance, was losing to a rival company in the soft drinks market until it segmented the market and started focusing on a young, fun-loving demographic. They observe that today many adverts of the former targeting that demographic feature pop stars and other young status symbols, a strategy that has helped it grow into a heavyweight company. You can also segment your market for growth by carving out a new corner of the market. Research your market to identify a viable segment of consumers you can target by searching the Internet and even checking with the local chamber of commerce. Narrow down who your main competitors are, who they are serving, what they are offering and areas that are underserved. This way you will be able to eliminate part of the larger market and carve out a corner of the market for yourself that you can focus on and grow your business. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to develop solid marketing plans. This is because expanding a small business usually requires substantial investment of time and money, which is why it is vital to develop a marketing plan beforehand. A marketing plan will ensure you are not only sticking to your expansion schedule, but also spending your marketing resources wisely and appropriately. Typically, a good marketing plan will outline everything from understanding your target market to understanding your competitive position in that market and how you intend to reach that market, as well as the costs of how you are going to achieve your expansion goals within a certain timeframe. As you develop your marketing plan, try and seek financing for your expansion efforts. To do this, analyse your financial situation to see if you have adequate funds to start your expansion efforts, and also to support ongoing expansion expenditure, such as the cost of maintaining new employees. Apply for financing from the agencies of government and private sector players that give out such support to small businesses, for example, the Bank of Industry, etc. Other options you have to get a small business loan to support your expansion goals include credit unions, banks and alternative online lenders. Remember your marketing budget is an integral part of your overall growth efforts, so avoid making common rookie small business loan mistakes. Learn to diversify your product and/or service offerings. Tweak your existing product or service so that it appeals to the new group of consumers or users you have identified. Alternatively, add a new product or service and start selling it to them. This way, you will open up new territory and expand your business in a new direction. By diversifying, you will also protect your existing customer base and create multiple income streams that can often fill seasonal lows and, of course, increase sales and profit margins. Common ways businesses diversify include importing or exporting their own or other people’s products; selling complementary services or starting consulting services. Chartered professional accountants, for example, could start consulting or offering financial planning services for business executives. You may also need to open another location to serve your new and existing market better. As an entrepreneur, you can as well partner others and get help for expansion. Align yourself with other brands and businesses, as an alliance with other brands can help your business expand faster. It is about strengths and weaknesses. Also, use new technology to stay competitive. Technological changes can either help your business grow or hurt your expansion goals. For example, upgrading your business facility with advanced technologies can increase your efficiency and expand your operations. However, being the last in your industry to sense where things are going with technology, say you are the last to adopt modern accounting software, can erode your base. So, try to keep up with the latest technology and decide on which types of technology are right for your business. Do not forget to devote part of your business to meeting the needs of the early adopters. You should engage consumers and endeavour to get additional direction and guidance. Also, network on social media to build brand recognition. Social media can be an invaluable tool for engaging with consumers and expanding your brand recognition. For example, a web design company can engage with its users by responding to their tweets, and fans that follow the company on Twitter can see the tweets. If the tweets are interesting and helpful, other people will follow the company thereby growing its fan base. Similarly, small businesses can post videos of satisfied customers on YouTube and Periscope; tag them with searchable keywords and link the videos to their business websites. You can also post company events, new product lines, specials offers and promotions on Facebook and other social networks. Small business owners are also encouraged to merge with or acquire other businesses in their line of trade. Perhaps the most aggressive growth and expansion strategy is to buy a company that makes products related to yours. That has been seen with tech companies like Facebook, Google and Amazon that continue to acquire smaller businesses. If you cannot acquire another business, perhaps you can arrange to merge with it. If you swing it, this can be a very smart move. However, it is important that you observe due diligence and consult with stakeholders, mentors, business associations and other available sources like books and magazines before merging or acquiring a business. That will help you get vital direction and guidance before you proceed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com