In this interview with SAMUEL AWOYINFA, the President, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria, Wale Adediran, talks about the human resource management, challenges among other issues In the past 10 years, how has personnel management in both public and private sector fared in Nigeria? Honestly, the profession is not where it used to be decades ago. It has definitely evolved. Before now, the personnel manager was just a ‘hiring and firing manager.’ Now, human resource is more strategic and has grown to be a strategic business partner, delivering organisational effectiveness by aligning the people and organisation strategy with the overall business goal. The HR is now the business of charting the course of organisational growth. In all, the profession is on an upward moving trajectory. Has human resource practice been given the pride of place in public institutions, especially where the department has been merged under some other departments? This is still work in progress and Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria is championing the process to have the HR given the right position in public institutions. This effort includes our incessant quest for accreditation of the CIPM diploma in the civil and public service as well as curriculum integration with tertiary institutions relevant disciplines. We review the curriculum for all HR- related courses in the tertiary schools and advise on what it should be. So far, we have the HR/Admin cadre in the civil service. What is left is for only professionals certified by CIPM to be accredited for career in that cadre. Also, we have successfully signed Memorandum of Understanding in six tertiary institutions. Even though the courses of study may not have the title ‘HR’, the content embedded is purely HR content. That is why upon graduation from such courses in these institutions, the students immediately get qualified to be inducted as Associate members of CIPM. We also share the curriculum with various schools for adoption in setting up HR degree program. How does the CIPM deal with the issue of quackery in the HR practice? The truth is, HR practitioners exercise the greatest influence on work, workplace and workforce. They impact the most important asset of the nation. Our role in creating a productive and healthy workplace is critical for social order, productivity and wellbeing of our nation. Due to the sensitive nature of this role, high level of professionalism is required. As an Institute, tackling the issue of quackery is of paramount importance. In 2012, we launched the Human Resource Practitioners’ Licence to clearly differentiate a professional from a quack. It is a proof of current competencies of a HR practitioner. We have the list of licensed practitioners on our website and will be made accessible to employers for verification before employing any individual in their HR department. Very soon, we would be publishing the register widely for reference of employers. Employers can also approach CIPM for validation of claims by practitioners in their background check process. I appeal to the government at all levels to collaborate with our Institute to play the role established for it by law. The law recognizes the criticality of our profession to national development. Hence, our Institute is saddled, by law, with the responsibility to regulate the practice of the HR profession in Nigeria. The law frowns at having non-professionals in HR practice. It stipulates sanctions for anyone who practices HR profession without CIPM certification. Even imprisonments are stipulated in the act for some contraventions. We will soon embark on enforcement of our regulatory duties as stipulated by law. The negative impact of untrained and uncertified pretenders on the life of the nation’s human capital is too critical to ignore. How does the institute contribute to national development in Nigeria? In the past 50 years since inception of the Institute, a lot of growth has taken place in the development of the human resource profession in Nigeria. Of particular importance to the Institute is living up to its mission, which is ‘Promoting excellence and regulating the ecosystem for people management to deliver value for suitable growth of individuals, organisations and the nation.’ This mission comes to play with our pool of strategic training and programmes, which are channelled for all round development. We have championed a number of causes. One of such is our drive for professionalism in the Nigerian public service, being the largest employer of labour. Recently, we inducted over 100 qualified individuals in the Ogun State civil service which is evidence of our involvement. We also did similar thing for Lagos State over the last few years. Furthermore, we have continued to contribute to addressing the challenge of unemployment in the country. Few years ago, we presented our findings from a research on Management of National Unemployment Challenges to the then Acting President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo. Just last year, we launched an internship programme tagged ‘Ready to Market’ which is a six- month industry internship scheme among others. What are the challenges confronting the institute? Our number one challenge is to have the accreditation of the CIPM certificate in the civil service. The Institute has been working in partnership with different stakeholders to ensure this happens. In pursuance of our accreditation drive, we recently had a meeting with the Head of Civil Service of the Federation and her team, where we presented our request to have the institute’s diploma included in the scheme of service of the federation. It is our prayer that our requests will be granted in the shortest possible time through the National Council for Establishment. Another challenge is the obsoleteness of the current Nigerian labour law. At the moment, the Institute is doing everything within its power to orchestrate the review of the Labour Law. Let me use this medium to call on all stakeholders starting from the Ministry of Labour to get involved. Does the CIPM see the current ministerial nominees as being capable of taking Nigeria out of the current economic woods? I believe leadership is very key to growth and development of any nation, society, association or organisation. However, progress is a collective effort from both the appointed leaders and the people. As a nation, there are a number of culturally fundamental issues that keep clouding our development, but until we all can move ahead from cultural issues that have plagued our country, these challenges may always remain. It involves active participation from everyone by being the change we want to see. Kindly tell us about yourself – where you work, other places you have worked among others I am currently the HR Director for Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc. I started my career in engineering and production as a pioneering staff in Procter & Gamble (P&G) Nigeria, in Ibadan. I led the operations team that started up local manufacturing of sanitary towels and baby diapers. I managed the Health Care manufacturing facilities, making various Richardson Vicks brands and pharmaceutical products. I managed the construction and start-up of the first modern diaper factory in Nigeria. It was commissioned by late Chief (Mrs) Stella Obasanjo. In the last sixteen and half years, I have been in executive HR lead roles in four major companies which are P&G, Frigoglass, Guinness (Diageo) and currently Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc. I am a proud product of Chief Bola Ige’s free education programme and the prestigious University of Ibadan. What is your dream for the CIPM? The strategy is to drive three priorities that will build the CIPM brand of our dreams. First, we will drive stakeholders’ satisfaction. Second, we will pursue pan-African membership. Lastly, we will seek an iconic presence and influence in Abuja. We will achieve these by doing three things: Transform our membership service platforms to build a strong reputation that will satisfy our members and attract membership pan-Africa, develop our branches aggressively and equally develop “glocalised” HR practice standard for Nigeria. World- class standards covering peculiar local realities. We will ensure the standard is embedded in people management practice in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 