If you have not heard about it, please allow me introduce it to you, it’s The Oceanna. And if you have heard about it, allow me re-introduce you to THE OCEANNA. The Oceanna is the revolution that Nigeria wants. A modern mixed-use development that befits the country’s ambitious vision. It is an Icon of The Nation. A four-tower resort that embodies a mixture of a live, work and play experience. Consisting of a hotel tower (The Indigo), two residential towers (Aqua and Azure) and a mixed-use tower (The Cerulean). The Oceanna is a shift away from the regular box and a shift towards an eco-friendly ambience which is reflected in its architecture. Specially designed by HOK Architects, the designer of Dubai Marina, Emirate Stadium & The Flames of Azerbaijan and branded by Brash Brands, the creative branding agency that breathed life into the world’s tallest building, Burj Khalifa Dubai. Construction by Cappa D’Alberto, known for iconic projects such as The Civic Towers.  The Oceanna is situated at Water Corporation Drive, off Ligali Ayorinde, Victoria Island, Lagos. Its more than just a location; The Oceanna is the portal to a plethora of opportunities and experiences. A community of investors with the mindset of change and growth. Luxury, nature and a soothing ambience all in one with more facilities unimaginable in one place. The Oceanna is more than a resort, it is also an investment opportunity for Nigerians at home and abroad. The Oceanna offers 2 investment schemes, giving every Nigerian of any caliber an opportunity to own a property in one of the most prestigious and growing parts of Lagos, Nigeria. As an investment opportunity this project yields returns on investment as high as 30%.  The first option is the Co-ownership investment scheme. The Co-ownership scheme affords you and a pool of investors the opportunity to co-own a hotel studio. Each of the studio’s consist of 20 lots with each investor buying a minimum of one lot. The other option is the Sole Ownership investment scheme – This offers you sole ownership of a fully serviced studio apartment or a 1 & 2 bedroom hotel apartment of your own to live or invest. Join other discerning investors to own a piece of luxury in either of our investment schemes. Prices from N7.9M, register your interest with just 5%. Tailored payment available. Take your place today with the elites in Nigeria’s most prestigious community. Click here to register your interest today or visit www.theoceanna.com to chat with an Oceanna Investment Advisor.