Oluwatobi Akindele A building contractor, Adeshina Ojomu, has been arraigned before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly defrauding a client, Lasisi Olayiwola, of N4.8m. Ojumu, whose address was given as No. 8 Mogbotoluwa Close, Egbeda, Lagos, allegedly committed the offence on April 11, 2019. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Mike Umah, told the court that Ojumu obtained the money from Olayiwola, the owner of Bishmur Company Limited, under the pretext of fabricating 219 aluminium windows for the company. “He used his friend’s phone to call his customer in Abuja for the business and the customer gave him the sum of N4.8m. After he collected the money, he went into hiding and he failed to deliver the aluminium windows,” Unah said. The prosecutor added that Ojumu was handed over to the police by his friend after the customer threatened to arrest him for shielding the accused. The charges read, “That you, Adeshina Ojumu, on April 11, 2019, around 2pm, at No. 55 Karimu Laka Street, Egbeda, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did obtain the sum of N4.8m from one Lasisi Olayiwola of Bishmur Company Limited on the pretext of fabricating 219 aluminium windows knowing same to be false, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 314(1)(a)and(b) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015. “That you, Adeshina Ojumu, on the same date, time and place at the aforesaid magisterial district, did steal the sum of N4.8m from one Lasisi Olayiwola of Bishmur Company Limited, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 287(8) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” Ojumu pleaded not guilty to the charges. The presiding magistrate, Mr A. A. Fashola, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N1m with two sureties each in like sum. He said the sureties must be gainfully employed with evidence of three years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government and have their addresses verified by the court. Fashola added that the sureties must present their bank statements for three months and reside within the court’s jurisdiction. The magistrate adjourned the case till September 16, 2019. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 