Etim Ekpimah A male adult passenger died on Wednesday when the bus he was travelling in collided with a car around 5.03am by the Redemption Camp main gate, Mowe, on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The vehicles involved in the accident were a white Jin Bei bus with number plate LSD 933 XQ, which had three passengers on board, and a Volkswagen Golf car with number plate EGB 608 XA. It was gathered that the corpse of the deceased had been deposited in the Fakoya Mortuary, Sagamu, Ogun State. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State Command, Mr Clement Oladele, said on Thursday that a traffic marshal attached to the Mowe Unit Commandwas briefly abducted. According to him, the incident happened in the process of impounding a Toyota bus with number plate LRR 652 XC, which was apprehended for driving against the traffic around the Deeper Life turning in Mowe on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Oladele stated, “The driver of the bus, in an attempt to evade arrest, drove off with the marshal, who was trying to arrest him. “But a manhunt was quickly launched and he was eventually apprehended a few kilometres away, around the Christopher University, Mowe. He was handed over to the police for further action.” He added that another crash occurred around 6.04am on the road cl0se to Oniworo, in the Ogunmakin area of Ogun State. Oladele added that six passengers out of the eight in a black Toyota Corolla with number plate KTU 892 DA and gold Toyota Corolla with number plate FKJ 306 FQ were injured in the crash. He said the injured victims were rescued and taken to the Victory Hospital, Ogere, and the obstructions were cleared. Oladele noted that the suspected cause of the crash was wrongful overtaking. He said, “The third crash occurred around 1.25pm on the Abeokuta-Ibadan Road around Olodo. Nineteen people, comprising two male adults, 14 female adults and three children were involved. “No one was injured, neither was any death recorded from the crash. The lone crash involved a yellow Hyundai bus with number plate GGE 295 FR. The victims were rescued and taken to the Olodo Hospital and the obstructions were cleared. “The fourth crash occurred around 1.45pm along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway around Danco, near Sagamu. Three persons, comprising one male adult, one female adult and one female child, were involved. “There were no deaths, but a male adult was injured in the crash. The lone crash involved an ash Toyota Camry with number plate KJA 810 AH. The suspected cause of the crash was excessive speed, which led to loss of control. “The victim was taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital in Sagamu and the obstruction was cleared.” Meanwhile, there was a fight between some irate tanker drivers in Ogere around 10am, which affected traffic on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Oladele said hoodlums attempted to hijack the protest by the tanker drivers to cause pandemonium before sister security agencies were alerted and brought the situation under control. READ ALSO: Abiodun launches Ogun job portal, employs 20 youths He noted that around 6am on Thursday, Premium Motor Spirit was leaking from a tanker on the outward section of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway around Danco, before the Sagamu interchange. Oladele stated that traffic was diverted between Mowe and Danco, around the interchange, for the safety of motorists, adding that the fire service had been invited to be on the ground before the transfer of the product to another vehicle. He, however, asked motorists to exercise greater restraints when travelling on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway due to increased vehicular movement following the resumption of work after the Eid-el-Kabir holidays. Oladele appealed to motorists to be wary of the portions where traffic had been diverted on the expressway between Ogere and Fidiwo, near Ogunmakin, as the area around the diversion had recently been associated with frequent crashes. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 