Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Building construction professionals have described the incessant cases of collapsed structures in the country as the bane of the industry. The President, Nigerian Institute of Building, Mr Kunle Awobodu, said building collapse remained the biggest challenge confronting the construction industry and professionals in it. He stated that the problem had created grievous competency doubts on the Nigerian building practitioners and their artisans in the minds of the international community. He, however, stated that the problem of building collapse was man-made and could be overcome if there was a genuine interest to right the wrong. “When buildings are falling frequently due to inadequate professional involvement in building construction, government should institute the enabling law and implementation mechanism that will reverse the current unacceptable construction process. We shall work together with the government and hold them accountable,” he said. Awobodu, in his acceptance speech as the new president of the NIOB, stated that about 10 years ago when he was the institute’s Lagos State chapter chairman,  the frequency of building collapse in the state made the then Governor, Mr Babatunde Fashola, to set up a technical committee to reform the Physical Planning and Development Law of the state. According to him, the committee was chaired by Brig. Gen. Tunde Reis, an architect, while Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu was the vice-chairman. He said the committee, having worked for over two years, developed a bill that was passed by the Lagos State House of Assembly and assented to by the governor in 2010, becoming the new Lagos State Urban and Regional Planning and Development Law. Awobodu, however, lamented that in Nigeria, promulgating law was to cross one hurdle, but its implementation was a bigger hurdle. He said, “Bearing this in mind and becoming resolute not to accept a situation where my profession, building, had become a source of unhappiness for families that lost their loved ones in collapsed buildings, I was touched again by the spirit that stirred concern within me during my service year in Port Harcourt. “I identified like minds, and relying on our personal resources, we formed Building Collapse Prevention Guild towards the end of 2011 and began to mobilise professionals across the built environment professional bodies in Lagos State. The response was wonderful. “Ironically and to our chagrin, we discovered that some government workers that were receiving salaries on building control were not comfortable with the assistance being rendered free of charge to the government by the BCPG. Were we crying more than the bereaved? The BCPG members usually alerted government officials on substandard building construction and distressed buildings in their cells.” He stated that compromise and corruption remained the bane in the fight against building collapse. “However, we must sustain the efforts to ensure that buildings that are being constructed in Nigeria meet the required standard,” he said. Awobodu said the institute would embark on international collaboration to equip its members with the latest construction technology and improved construction methodology. He added that specialisation in different areas of building by members would also be introduced to promote expertise. The immediate past President of the NIOB, Mr Kenneth Nduka, called on the Federal Government and other professionals in the built environment to ensure healthy and safe practices on building sites. He said there had been increased concerns over the prevalence of hazards and unsafe acts in the industry. The Chairman, Planning Committee of the 49th Builders’ Conference, Mr Alderton Ewa, said the seminar was to mobilise Nigerian builders and stakeholders to support various government efforts and policies towards the enforcement of acceptable safety standards in line with international best practices in the construction industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       