Enyioha Opara A downpour that started in the early hours of Saturday in Bosso and Chanchaga local government areas of Niger State has claimed three lives and displaced over 500 others. It was learnt that the rain, which submerged over 20 houses, destroyed other buildings, including shops and farms, started at about 3am while residents were still in bed. Some of the residents blamed the rain for the flooding which they said led to the collapse of the MYPA bridge in Bosso and the washing away of the Mola bridge in Dutsen Kura Hausa. The Niger State acting Governor, Ahmed Ketso, who paid a condolence visit to the people, said the government had directed the State Emergency Management Agency to immediately take inventory of the losses and provide relief materials for the victims. Ketso, however, called on the Federal Government and relevant bodies to assist the state in addressing the unending disaster caused by flood annually. Speaking on behalf of the Dutsen Kura Hausa victims, a resident, Sanusi Mohammed, said, “three persons have been carried away and must have died by now.” Another victim, Zubairu Addullahi, who was counting his losses, disclosed that his animals and fish pond had been wiped away and his entire house destroyed by the water. According to him, the flood came from drainage which overflowed as a result of the midnight rain, adding, “my goats, chickens and thousands of eggs have all been carried away.” Speaking also, the Ward Head (Mai Angwan), Inuwa Tokura, decried the state government’s nonchalant attitude towards addressing the incessant flooding affecting the areas. Tokura said, “I have witnessed four floods now; the only solution to this flooding is the construction of drainage system from the Federal University of Technology, Minna, down to Minna-Bida road.” A mother of three, Hadiza Rabiu, from Shanu village in Bosso lamented that she lost N40,000, food items and personal effects to the flood. The Director General of NSMA, Ibrahim Inga, said there were three unconfirmed cases of deaths while many persons had been displaced. Inga said over 70 per cent of the affected victims built on waterways, adding that the government would make necessary provisions for the victims. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 