Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Oyo State Police Command, on Monday, paraded suspected armed robbers, who allegedly diverted goods valued at N40m to an unknown destination. The state Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, said his men were alerted that suspected highway robbers had ambushed a truck laden with generators and engine oil in the Akinyele area of the city. He stated, “We received credible information that some notorious hoodlums, who specialised in hijacking and diverting trucks laden with goods on the highways, had hijacked a Mack truck laden with new SUMEC portable generators in the Akinyele area along the Ibadan-Oyo Expressway and diverted the goods valued at around N40m to an unknown destination. “The Special Anti-Robbery Squad operatives swung into action and carried out a discreet investigation, and in the process, the following members of the criminal gang, who identified themselves as Adekunle Awoyode, Sarafadeen Abiodun, Ismail Oyelowo, Abiodun Azeez, Sulaimon Olamilekan, Olasode Hammed, Jelili Olowoaje, Hamish Tafa, Quadri Afeez and Wasilat Taiwo were arrested. “Exhibits recovered include 410 pieces of brand new SUMEC portable generators, 560 four-litre gallons of Conoil engine oil, a Mark truck with number plate EKY 743 XF and a Toyota Camry car with number plate SMK 591 EQ.” One of the suspects, Taiwo, the receiver of the goods, said she was promised N1m if the deal succeeded, adding that initially, she was not aware of the nature of the goods. “They told me that the consignment was oil and that I would be given N1m if the deal worked out. I am a provision seller; I am not selling generator,” she told journalists. The driver of the truck, Abiodun, said the generators and oil were being conveyed from Lagos to Port Harcourt, Rivers State, before he diverted the goods to Oyo State, noting that his own share would have been N1m if the deal had succeeded. The command also said it had arrested an alleged fake pastor, Olusegun Oyetunji, for luring unsuspecting female victims to his hideout in Awe town via Oyo, where he usually dispossessed them of their valuables, rape them serially and also carry out some spiritual cleansing for his patrons for ritual purposes. Olukolu stated, “Sequel to the information received, a team of SARS operatives swung into action and in the process, the notorious suspected robber/rapist and ritualist, who identified himself as Olusegun Oyetunji, was arrested. “One Infinix mobile phone with which he took obscene pictures of his victims was recovered from him. Upon interrogation, he confessed to the crime and claimed to be the pastor of the Gospel Ministry Commission based in the Bashi Quarter, Awe, and his confession led to the arrest of one of his accomplices, Gbenga Babatunde, who is a quack that used to perform abortion for some of Oyetunji’s victims. “In continuation of our resolve to constantly rid Oyo State of crime and criminality, the command has sustained its aggressive approach and entrenched the community policing strategy with the determination and commitment of the officers and men of the command to reduce crime to the barest minimum in the state in spite of the odds.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  