Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta The Awujale and Paramount ruler of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, on Wednesday, warned against the politicisation of the stool after his demise. The 85-year-old monarch, who was installed in 1960, said he did not know if he would be alive to witness next year’s Ojude-Oba festival. He warned that the process of selecting his successor after his demise must not be  politicised. Oba Adetona said this during this year Ojude-Oba held at Oba Adetona Pavilion, Ijebu-Ode. The monarch spoke in the presence of the dignitaries such as the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; and the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, among others. He said prayers from both Islamic and Christian leaders had been sustaining him. He also enjoined the kingmakers to call on God for direction before the selection of his successor. Oba Adetona, who spoke in Yorùbá language said, “When I eventually go, please, go for a capable successor. “Reject any candidate that will put Ijebuland into retrogression. Do not politicise the process of selecting my successor. Do not go for people that will draw Ijebu backwards. “If the next ruling house does not present a viable candidate, please, reject him, and go for the next ruling house with a capable candidate. “Do not go for moneybags that will destroy the achievements that Ijebuland has recorded so far. “Call on God for direction when picking my successor. Ask God to guide you.” The monarch prayed that Ijebuland would continue to grow “from strength to strength.” READ ALSO: You can’t suppress us, IPOB tells Umahi In his remarks, the governor prayed that God would spare Awujale’s life till next year Ojude-Oba. Speaking on his government activities, Abiodun said, “Let me state that as a responsible government, we need to know where we are coming from for us to be able to know where we are heading to. “So, we need to ensure that whatever we do is not just done, but done well without allowing for distractions from any quarters.” Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com