The Nigerian Bottling Company says it has collaborated with a downstream oil and gas firm, Enyo Retail and Supply, to boost customer experience through the provision of the NBC chillers at selected Enyo service stations nationwide. According to the NBC, the collaboration aligns with Enyo’s vision of making its retail outlets one-stop centres where customers can do more than fuelling their cars. It said with the provision of the NBC chillers, Enyo customers could enjoy drinks from the NBC stables. The Corporate Development Lead, Enyo Retail and Supply, Olabanjo Alimi, was quoted as saying, “We are excited to partner the NBC. “As a growing innovative fuel retailing company, we are committed to developing creative ways of driving customer experience at each of our outlets. “We understand that our customers are diverse, and they are constantly seeking ways to recharge and re-energise through the bustle of day-to-day living. That is why our partnership with the NBC is significant as it enables us to better serve customers with refreshing drinks every time they stop at our stations.” The National Key Accounts Director at the NBC, Abdul Qureshi, stated, “Today heralds a new partnership between the NBC and Enyo and it is another milestone in our efforts to delight our esteemed customers. “Our business and growth in Nigeria is strengthened by strategic partnerships with distributors, retailers and our consumers. This investment is poised to enable customers to have more access to the NBC and our refreshing brands.” The statement listed other non-fuel revenue offerings at Enyo service stations as Enyo’s VEHICON – premium vehicle concierge providing car maintenance services and REELAX – a destination collection of convenience offerings and convenience stores. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 