’Femi Asu The Department of Petroleum Resources has said it will close the gaps identified in Environmental Impact Assessment studies being submitted by consultants in the downstream sector to the agency. The Deputy Director and Zonal Operations Controller, Lagos Zonal Office, Mr Wole Akinyosoye, disclosed this in Lagos during a technical sensitisation workshop on quality improvement of environmental impact studies in line with current oil and gas industry regulations. He stressed the need to improve on the process and quality of environmental studies and reporting. Akinyosoye said, “If you compare the upstream with the downstream in terms of environmental impact reporting, you will see that there are a lot of gaps. The essence of this workshop is for us to bridge that gap to ensure that we bring up to speed those who are operating in the downstream sector to ensure that we deliver quality to the industry. “We are saying environmental impact analysis must be done for all projects in the downstream sector. The essence of this is for us to know the risks inherited in the projects.” According to him, the DPR has noticed a trend of ‘copy and paste’ in some environmental reports submitted to the department. He said, “Sometimes we found that the logic for arriving at critical conclusions is absent in the body of reports. Such a situation often leaves us with no choice other than outright rejection of such reports or asking for a new report. You will agree that such avoidable waste of time should be discouraged. “We are here to reiterate the obvious by ruminating on the essence of environmental studies. Why we do what we do. How can we help ourselves to do better? Essentially, we are here to start a cultural change, in the ways we do environmental studies and reporting, to bring us in alignment with international best practices.” The Head, HSE, Lagos Zonal Office, DPR, Mfon Attih, stressed the need to realign the focus of the consultants on the agency’s expectations in the area of environmental impact analysis. “Over time, we have identified gaps in terms of quality assurance in the EIA studies that are being delivered. The whole essence of the workshop is to bring the consultants together and realign their focus on what the expectations of the DPR are with regard to the existing guidelines and standards for the industry.” The EIA is a process of evaluating the likely environmental impact of a proposed project or development, taking into account inter-related socio-economic, cultural and human-health impact, both beneficial and adverse. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com