The Federal Government is to inaugurate a solar hybrid power plant
in Upake community, Kogi State on Monday (today). The announcement said the project was committed to providing electricity access to un-served and under-served communities across Nigeria, thereby increasing electricity access to particularly hard-to-reach areas. The indigenes of Upake Community (the ancestral home of Ebira people) in Ajaokuta Local Governement Area of Kogi State, are set to benefit from clean, safe and reliable electricity access following the installation of an 80 kilowatt (KW) solar hybrid mini grid power plant. The Federal Government of Nigeria, through its implementing Agency – Rural Electrification Agency (REA) would inaugurate the 80 Kilowatt (KW) solar hybrid mini grid power plant project today (Monday) in the rural community. As a result of this reliable electricity project, 496 residential and
commercial buildings will be connected and will receive constant
electricity henceforth. The first call of the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) will energise 12
communities and deploy 19,000 Solar Home Systems (SHS). In her remarks, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi,  said the move to light up every nook and cranny of Nigeria reiterates the commitment of the Buhari-led administration in fulfilling its mandate to ensure electricity access for Nigerians. “More families and businesses in Upake will have access to clean, sustainable and reliable electricity from the sun. “This enhances productivity and provides jobs in Upake.” “Upake community is one of the 12 communities to benefit from the first set of grants under the Rural Electrification Fund, which is a Rural Electrification Agency (REA) initiative. “Other communities set to inaugurate solar hybrid mini grids in the coming weeks include: Kare, Dadin-Kowa & Tsulaye communities in Kebbi State; and Akpabom community in Akwa Ibom State. “The Nigerian Rural Electrification Agency (REA), the implementing
agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria, is tasked with
electrification of un-served and under-served communities. “The Rural Electrification Fund provides equitable access to electricity across Nigeria to maximise the economic, social and environmental benefits of rural electrification grants, to promote off-grid electrification, and to stimulate innovative approaches to rural electrification. “REF projects are administered using a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model,” the statement added.