Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has widened its dragnet in search of cronies and aides of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, involved in alleged N3bn bribery, duty tour allowance falsification and fraud case. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja on Thursday that EFCC detectives were still following the trail of how Oyo-Ita used proxies to obtain money from contractors handling various projects in Ministries, Departments and Agencies in the country. Some contractors who allegedly gave her bribes have been identified and would also be invited for questioning, it was learnt. The bank accounts of a number of the suspects were said to have been frozen, including that of the HoS’. Preliminary findings had confirmed that about N3b lodged in her accounts were from proxy companies and contractors. The anti-graft agency, The PUNCH  learnt, was already preparing to apply to court for interim forfeiture of the money, the source of which Oyo-Ita was reportedly unable to explain during interrogations. A source in the EFCC disclosed that the HoS was interrogated at an unidentified location to protect her from prying eyes. “When confronted with the evidence against her, she could not offer a rational explanation for the huge amounts that were lodged in her accounts and that of her cronies. “But detectives were directed to suspend the interrogations when it was observed that she was looking unwell. She was released on an administrative bail and immediately she left our facility, she was checked into a private clinic. She has not resumed in her office since then,” the source narrated. [READ ALSO] Money laundering: EFCC grills Okorocha, to return Monday Our correspondent was informed that the EFCC had already established a prima facie case against Oyo-Ita. It was learnt that criminal charges may be prepared and filed as soon as President Muhammadu Buhari approved her suspension from office for official misconduct and corruption. “Unfortunately, this is likely to mark the end of her career in the civil service,” the source added. The acting EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade, said he was not aware of the investigation. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 