Leke Baiyewu, Abuja Stakeholders in the maritime sector have said the perennial crisis caused by the congestion at the Apapa port, Lagos will not end until other ports in the country are functional. The stakeholders listed factors frustrating other ports in the country, especially in the eastern region as shallow channels, insecurity, bad road networks, non-functional rail system as well as low exports. According to them, berthing ships in ports outside Lagos do not get cargo when returning. According to them, this is  the reason why shippers prefer ports in Lagos to others in the country. The stakeholders spoke in Abuja on Thursday at a public hearing organised by a House of Representatives’ ad hoc committee meant to determine why the Warri, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Onne and Onitsha inland port complexes were not being put to maximum use. Representatives of regulators in the security sector also noted the inter-agency rivalry as an inhibiting factor, with the Nigerian Navy calling for a “common superior” body to coordinate the agencies and address the clash in their responsibilities. The Chairman of the committee, Buba Yakub, lamented the gridlock in and around the Apapa port, forcing President Muhammadu Buhari to set up a task force led by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo to intervene in the crisis. Yakub said, “The congestion at the Apapa port has defied all solutions; it is so bad that the Vice-President has to chair a task force to decongest the port. This is disgraceful because we have so many stakeholders involved in the management of the maritime industry. “A lot has been done to solve this problem, yet it is still lingering. But I want to assure you that this special ad hoc committee will not be business as usual; we will make sure that this monster is dealt with once and for all this time round.” The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transport, Sabin Zakari, in his presentation identified “multiple charges by various agencies, lack of synergy and cooperation among stakeholders” as some of the problems in the maritime sector. The Director of Training, Naval Headquarters, Abuja, Rear Admiral Adaji Abraham, who represented the Chief of Naval Staff, said, “Maritime business is a business that requires timeliness and safety while not losing sight of the economy. One of the major problems that hinder the use of the eastern ports is the long, narrow and deserted channel of the ports, consistent with the safety along the channels.” The Executive Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Idris Abubakar; Head, Maritime Safety and Seafarer Standards, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Captain Sunday Umoren, in their various presentations, corroborated the position of the Nigerian Navy. Earlier while declaring the hearing open, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Deputy Majority Leader, Peter Akpatason, said the panel was constituted to investigate why the alternatives to the Apapa port had not been functional. “It is the responsibility of this committee to deliver a policy framework and make substantive proposals for legislative and executive action to drive the increased utilisation at these ports for the socio-economic benefit of the Nigerian people,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 