Tony Okafor, Awka Unknown gunmen have invaded Umuobam, Ojobi Umunya in the Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State and injured scores of the residents. While the reason for the invasion could not be ascertained as of the time of filing the story, Southern City News gathered that no fewer than 10 persons sustained varying degrees of injury during the attack. Confirming the incident to Southern City News on Sunday, the Chairman of the community, Augustine Onalue, said the land had been a subject of dispute, which made the state government about three months ago to order that nobody should enter the land. He said, “We went to the land, which rightfully belongs to us; when we got there, we saw some people working there and we demanded to know on whose instructions they were engaged. “Suddenly, they started fighting us, shooting at us with guns and attacking us with all kinds of weapons. They beat us ruthlessly and injured many of us. “They entered that land in a kangaroo way. The land is more than eight hectares and it’s just a contractor, who is busy developing the place and selling structures for different rates, ranging from N3m to N5m per shop, all for his personal interest. “They started with the shoe section, which they have already completed, before commencing work on the present one three months ago. “The speed at which they are building is amazing. Every day and night you come here, you will see work going on. They even work on Sundays. “We don’t know them; that was why we enquired to know them. But instead of answering us, they started attacking us.” Onalue said members of the community had explored all necessary options, including writing to the state governor, the Boundary Adjustment Commission and the police, but regretted that work had continued on the land unabated. He added, “What is most annoying to us is the steady development of the land without consulting the rightful owners. We went there unarmed, but you can see machete cuts on my body. “All we are pleading is for our dear governor to intervene before more casualties will be recorded. “They have insulted my personality, disgraced and wounded me. You can see my back. They won’t go scot free.” When contacted on the telephone, the spokesperson for the state police command, Harunna Mohammed, said he would contact the Divisional Police Officer in charge of the area to get a situation report on the matter and get back to our correspondent, but he had not done so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com