Anna Okon
The Nigerian Ports Authority has inaugurated an emergency response team to check criminal activities and other emergency situations at the Calabar port. The Managing Director of NPA, Hadiza Bala-Usman, said the initiative was born out of the requirement for port safety, protection of marine environment, security and smooth movement of ships and cargo in and out of the ports by the International Maritime Organisation. Bala-Usman, who was represented by the General Manager, Ports Security Unit, Capt Iheanacho Ebubeogu, said the measure was necessary because the port and its environs were surrounded by tank farms and other security threats such as sea robbery. She said it was in tandem with best practices because 80 per cent of the vessels berthing at the port were wet cargoes. She said, “As a result, this requires extra safety and security measures from all the stakeholders to ensure protection of lives and property.” Bala-Usman commended the Calabar Port Manager, Marie Assein, for initiating the project. Asein called for synergy with all sister agencies in the maritime sector to achieve efficient security at the port. The Chairman of NPA, Emmanuel Ajibola, lauded the initiative, saying it would go a long way in curbing criminal activities within the port’s operational areas. He said that the NPA was working to increase shipping activities at the Calabar port, adding that the management would soon rid the port of all illegal settlements to complement the effort of the team. Ajobola described the Calabar port as very strategic to the economies of the country, Cross River and the neighbouring states. Meanwhile, Bala-Usman, has called on stakeholders to collaborate more towards addressing infrastructure and ease of doing business challenges at the nation’s seaports. She stressed that this was needed to achieve the objectives of the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. She spoke during the quarterly meeting of the Port Consultative Council in Lagos recently. A statement signed by the General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA, Mr Jatto Adams, quoted Bala-Usman as saying that on its part, the management of the NPA had embarked on measures to address the infrastructure challenges at the ports and improve the ease of doing business. She listed the measures as road repairs; conversion of Lilypond Container Terminal into a holding bay for trucks; creating an automated call-up system for trucks and granting incentives to encourage transportation of cargo through barges from Ikorodu, Epe, Ijegun and other Lagos suburbs. The measures, according to her, are aimed at making Nigeria’s ports the leading port in Africa. She commended the PCC for its positive impact on the Nigerian maritime sector and pledged the NPA management’s commitment towards tackling critical issues affecting the ports’ operational capacity, maritime safety and security, port access roads and multimodal transportation of cargo. The Chairman, PCC, Kunle Folarin, while commending the NPA MD for her accomplishments and the positive impact in the maritime sector, said, “We’ve continued to score a lot of mileage and we need the support of all agencies to move the council to the next level.” He said the council had collaborated with stakeholders in the transport sector to bring required development to the industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com