Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata One of the interesting outcomes of  writing a column in a newspaper is that you do not know who is reading what you have written, where they are and what  their reactions are. You, as a writer, just keep doing what you enjoy doing. Each week, after this column is published, people respond in various ways  via instant messaging and, in some cases, text messages, but not too often would you get someone write a well-thought-out response, such as the one received, following last week’s piece. Phuzo Soko, who sent the response, is a Senior Business Intelligence Manager/Data Scientist, at an insurance company in Johannesburg, South Africa. After reading the piece, he sent in a response that I believe should be made public. I did reach out to Phuzo to find out if this could be published in full and he gave his nod; so, here we go: “I refer to an article, ‘Are we ready for the 4th Industrial Revolution?’ by Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr available on https://punchng.com/are-we-ready-for-the-4th-industrial-revolution/ and wish to add my commentary, accentuating that the issues raised herein are not homogenous to Nigeria, but are prevalent across the African continent. For the sake of brevity, I will pick up a few points and draw parallels, where failure to implement will forever be our main pain point or source of frustration for us, as Africans. Though these failures stem from our political nomenclature, I will endeavour to confine myself to the failures in implementing technological, educational and industrial policies, concerning innovation and the 4th Industrial Revolution, in particular. On the ‘Nigeriasat-1’, you asked a question: “But so far, what has the country done with this achievement? Has the country built on this milestone?” This is the story of Africa. We launch with much fanfare and great expense but soon after, we let go. Politicians are ever willing to cut ribbons and make pronouncements, on what needs to done, but neglecting the implementation, either, willingly, abdicating that responsibility to the unknown, if not, to an incompetent known. Could it be that, this is the price, society pays, when meritocracy is thrown out of the window and assigning responsibilities, based on other considerations? Basing appointments on nepotism as an example? On policy, you concluded that, “The conundrum, facing the country is not because of the lack of great policies, but the ability to carry out the policies.” Suffice to regurgitate this point that, this is not a Nigerian problem. This is an African problem. To put this in perspective, I draw your attention to a book, by the late Nigerian Chinua Achebe, entitled ‘The Trouble with Nigeria’, a more befitting title, everything else, (content-wise), being constant is, ‘The Trouble with Africa.’ On technology, in general, you said: ‘We need to start leveraging technology, in solving some of our major problems, such as unemployment, social unrest, agriculture, logistics, education, security, corruption and infrastructure deficiency and the time to start is now.’ For the fact that we have the numbers, be it of people, problems, need or inefficient systems, it should not be a problem to leverage such a myriad of already innovated technologies. Again, I say, what you have written about is not a problem that is only confined to Nigeria. It is an Africa-wide problem, where politicians habitually spend a lot of resources in time, money and human capital on workshops and seminars to come up with these policies, which end up gathering dust for failure of implementation. In July, 2019, South Africa convened a summit on the 4th Industrial Revolution, culminating in the appointment, of a 30-member team to serve on the fourth industrial revolution, Presidential Commission. We are yet to see any pronouncements from the commission. Maybe, it is too early. Going by other task teams assembled for other assignments, the conclusion is for the citizenry to debate. There are many examples all over the continent of this inertia towards the implementation of policy. For example, here in South Africa, the Cyber Security bill, which is a great piece of literature is yet to be actualised. Another example that comes to mind is the use of drones. Whereas, there have been demonstrable benefits that could be derived from the use of drones, its use or implementation is still being stifled by government bureaucracy. In Zambia, which is my home country, a while back, the Israelis did a feasibility study to get water from the northern part of the country, where it is in abundance, to the drier south. This was going to feed the two major hydro electricity generating rivers in the south, which in turn, would have led to alleviating a real threat to electricity generation currently being experienced. But to this day, nobody even dares discuss that study. Feasibility studies have been done; workshops or seminars held, documents are written, but no will power to implement. The list is endless. I am even afraid to solicit for examples. Our universities are not doing much in being channels of innovation, or advocating for the implementation of policy. The relationship between the universities or the institutions of higher learning and industry is also an area that can be a significant incentive in steering a link, between innovation and implementation of policy, as an example. Interestingly, several universities on the continent now bear the tag of ‘Institutes of Technology.’  We are yet to see fruit from this, assuming that a name in itself is enough to spur innovation or help to advocate the implementation of policy. The one other area that the continent has failed to model is the technological ecosystems that exist in other countries, such as the San Francisco Bay Area in California, known as Silicon Valley, which draws its synergy between institution of training, research and industry. In conclusion, perhaps, looking  to governments for leadership on this issue is a fallacy. It is possible that  the solution is in the hands of lone rangers, be it technologists, industrialists, inventors, engineers or scientists, to be innovative, in such a way that government will have no option, but to get on board. Whereas, I am persuaded by this proposition, I am still inclined to think that the government has a role to play in education policy, considering that most of the higher institutions of learning are owned by governments.” Let me end by saying a personal thank-you to Phuzo for this well-written piece. Our hope as authors and stakeholders is that someone, somewhere is reading for the sake of Africa’s future. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   