Raphael Ede, Enugu Thousands of Catholic faithful as well as Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, on Tuesday, gathered at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu, to bid the slain priest, Rev. Fr. Paul Offu, a final farewell. Until his gruesome murder by herdsmen, Fr. Offu, 49, who hailed from Okpatu in the Udi Local Government Area of the state, was the Parish Priest of the St. James The Great Church, Ugbawka, in the Nkanu East Local Government Area of the state. Offu’s corpse was brought to the church premises around 9am, where he was buried after a requiem mass officiated by the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Most Rev. Calistus Onaga. Onaga said the death of the priest had sent a message not just to the people of Enugu State, but to the entire country and the world. The bishop charged Christians and all Nigerians to realise that the responsibility for security of the country was not just for those in power, but for everybody. While commending the governor and the security agencies for their efforts in arresting the killer herdsmen, Onaga pointed out that God answered the prayers of Christians on the priest’s murder. He advised priests and residents of the state to avoid unnecessary movement after 6pm. “Those who killed Fr Paul Offu have been caught. Not only that, those who killed Fr. Clement earlier have been caught as well. God is answering our prayers. Mr Governor, thank you so much, we are praying for you too and we shall continue to work together,” the bishop stated. In a sermon, the Parish Priest of the Holy Innocent Parish, Amagunze, Nkanu East, Very Rev. Fr. Sylvester Nwodo, lamented the continuous attack on priests, saying the diocese had to bid farewell to another priest some weeks earlier. He described Fr Offu as an active pastoral priest, a game changer, a man of charisma and a soul winner for God. In attendance were Bishop of the Awgu Diocese, Most Rev. John Okoye , who offered prayers for the repose of the soul of the deceased; Bishop of the Nsukka Diocese, Most Rev. Godfrey Onah; and other bishops and priests as well as the deputy governor of the state, members of the National Assembly from the state and the 17 local government council chairmen in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 