Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has cleared  the  34 aspirants  screened ahead of the governorship primaries in   Bayelsa  and Kogi states on September 5. Governorship polls take place in the two  states on November 16. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan,  said on Wednesday 13  aspirants from Bayelsa  and 21 from Kogi were cleared. Former Kogi State Governor Wada Idris was cleared alongside  Senator Dino Melaye, Erico Ameh, Aminu Suleiman, Grace Adejoh, Abubakar Ibrahim, Kabiru Haruna, Musa Wada, Saliu Atawodi, Mohammed Adah, Victor Adoji, Baye Averehi and Emmanuel Omebije by the screening committee headed by  Taraba State  Governor  Dirus Ishaku. For the  Bayelsa primary,  Kaniebi Okoko, Great Maciver, Franklin Osaisai, Ndutime Alaibe, Benson Agadaga, Frederick Agbedi, Reuben Okoya, Diri Douye, Talford Ongolo, Kemlea Okara and  Gboribiogha Jonah were cleared by the screening committee headed by  Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. Others were Benson Konbowei, Godknows Igali, Johnson Kiyaramo, Paulker Emmanuel, Yariela Oliver, Anthony George-Ikoli, Robinson Etolor, Nimibofa Ayawei, David Alagoa and Igiri Ziperedein. The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said the party had no preferred candidates, adding that they would  ensure transparent  primaries. Secondus said, “The election of the ad hoc delegates will begin  on Thursday.  The elections will be transparently done to the satisfaction of all.  The party and indeed the National Working Committee has no preferred candidates. We can’t do that to the detriment of the party. “Our only duty is to ensure that only the best candidates emerge. We will obey the rules to the letter,  because we want the best.  Anyone that tells you that the party has  preferred candidates is deceiving you. The era of impunity in the party is gone.  I will not preside where anyone will claim that they are the preferred candidate of the party.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com