Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Two persons were killed in an auto crash that occurred on Tuesday on the Bauchi/Dass Road in Bauchi State. One other person was critically injured and was rushed to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, for medical attention. Our correspondent learnt that the driver and the two occupants of a blue Peugeot 206 car were drunk when the accident happened. The identities of the deceased could not be ascertained as of the time of filing this report. The Head of Operations, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi Sector Command, Ibrahim Abubakar, confirmed the accident to our correspondent on Thursday. Abubakar also confirmed that the driver and his two friends were drunk and that the driver was on top speed when he lost control and the car somersaulted. He said that car veered off the road and fell into a ditch, leading to the death of the two persons Abubakar stated, “Yes, it is true that an accident occurred on the Bauchi/Dass Road on Tuesday around 9pm. It was a lone accident involving a blue Peugeot 206 car with number plate AJG 248 AA. “The vehicle had three occupants and was heading for Bauchi from Dass when the accident happened. We suspect that the victims under the influence of alcohol, because we recovered a bottle of whisky from the car. “The driver was on excess speed and he lost control; as a result, he veered off the road and the car somersaulted and fell into a ditch.” Abubakar, who is the Deputy Corps Commander, said two bodies were recovered from the scene and deposited in the ATBU Teaching Hospital mortuary. He added that the third person, who was unconscious, was rushed to the same hospital for treatment. He warned drivers to desist from driving while under the influence of alcohol. He said, “I will like to warn drivers to desist from drinking and driving, especially during these ember months, and they should be very careful on the roads. “Passengers should also watch out for the behaviour of drivers whenever they are travelling. If they observe that the driver is drunk or is about to take alcohol, they should report him to the nearest security agencies. “Our men are always vigilant and are always on the roads; they have all the equipment to test the drivers. I also call on the unions at the parks to sensitise and warn their members not to drive under the influence of alcohol, otherwise, when we arrest them, we will prosecute them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   