Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Med-View Airline has petitioned the Federal Government over an alleged breach of contractual agreement on the ongoing annual hajj operation to Saudi Arabia by the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria. Med-View alleged that NAHCON through its Acting Chairman, Abdullahi Mukhtar, had contravened the agreement and frustrated the airline from continuing with the hajj exercise. The airline said the commission attempted to compel it to partner a Saudi Arabian’s carrier, Flynas, despite its partnership with another Nigerian airline, Max Air, in the exercise. Med-View’s solicitor, Debo Adeleke, said that NAHCON was to make 50 per cent payment to Med-View to enable the airline to conclude all necessary arrangements for the commencement of the hajj operations. Adeleke said that the commission rather made available only 25 per cent payment on July 15, five days into the exercise. He said before the airline was disallowed from continuing with the outbound exercise, it had already airlifted 4,383 pilgrims in five days of the exercise, with eight flights. In a letter dated July 5 and signed by the Chief Executive Officer, Med-View Airline, Mr Muneer Bankole, and addressed to the chairman of NAHCON, the airline demanded payment of $900,000 to be made available to General Authority of Civil Aviation and TAIBA, $400,000 and $500, 000, respectively. The letter made available to The PUNCH, read in part, “As a result of exigency with regard to preparation for 2019 hajj airlift exercise, we wrote to request payment of the sum of $900,000 to GACA and TAIBAH as analysed below: (i) GACA – $400,000  and (ii) TAIBAH – $500, 000.” In another letter with reference number: MCILC/STFGN/NCBTAAB/01/19, dated August 5, 2019 and addressed to the Vice President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Chief of Staff to the President and Secretary to the Federal Government of Nigeria, the airline also accused NAHCON of malice. The document said the entire 100 per cent was to be returned to the airline in four tranches: 50, 30, 10 and another 10 per cent, but as of August 5; the agreement was not redeemed by NAHCON. It said, “A sum of 35 per cent of the contract sum is payable on the positioning of aircraft by our client for the commencement of the hajj operation and completion of all agreements for the outbound flights, while 10 per cent of the contract sum is meant for the inbound. “Sir, it is highly unfortunate and agonising that while our client had meticulously, sincerely and religiously kept to the terms and spirit of the agreement between parties, the acting chairman of NAHCON failed, refused and neglected to honour the terms and spirit of the said agreement.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   