A teenage bricklayer and two others charged with attempted murder, on Tuesday appeared before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State. The police arraigned 18-year-old Folajimi along with 25-year-old generator repairer, Abiona, and 20-year-old labourer, Damilola on four counts of conspiracy, membership of an unlawful society, illegal possession of ammunition and attempted murder. The defendants all reside in Epe area of Lagos State, They, however, pleaded not guilty. The Magistrate, Mrs Bukola Mogaji, granted each of the defendants N70, 000 bail and two sureties each in the like sum. READ ALSO: EFCC raid: There’s no cause for alarm —Ambode Mogaji said that the sureties should be gainfully employed and show evidence of two years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. She adjourned the case until September 24 for mention. The prosecutor, Inspector Donjour Perezi had told the court that the defendants committed the offences on July 21, at 9:30 p.m. at Epe. Perezi said that the defendants and two others at large attacked the complainant, Mr Bello and his sister, Mrs Aro, at her shop by shooting at them and others around the shop. “The complainant was sitting down in his sister’s shop at the above-mentioned address with his friends when five young men came with weapons such as cutlass and axe. “They shouted a slogan – Aiye axe men – three times and began shooting, which resulted in bullet grazed wounds on the complainant’s ear and shoulders and his sister’s ear as well as the back of another woman who was at the place. “The complainant said that he heard one of the men mention names such as ‘Goje’ and ‘Biona’, telling them it was time to go. “Mrs Aro said that she saw someone with a gun but couldn’t identify the person as the gun was shot and grazed her left ear. “The police were called and Abiona was arrested, and a live cartridge found at the scene of the crime. “The information he provided led to the arrest of the others,” the prosecutor said. He said that the case was transferred from Epe Police Divisional Headquarters to the Anti Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Police Command on July 22. The alleged offences contravene Sections 42, 230, 330 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that attempted murder breaches Section 230 of the criminal law and attracts life imprisonment. (NAN)