Ife Ogunfuwa Jumia Technologies AG says it has discovered that some of its Nigerian independent sales consultants connived with some sellers and employees to inflate sales figure to gain additional commission. The e-commerce company said these were some of the findings of the sales practices probe it carried out between January and June this year. Sharing details of the company’s second-quarter earnings, the Jumia Nigeria CEO, Juliet Anammah, said the independent sales consultants called JForce got higher compensation as a result of the illegal transactions that boosted its General Merchandise Value by one per cent in 2018. According to her, the employees, consultants and sellers involved had since been disengaged and the company’s sales practices reviewed across the countries where it operates. Jumia said in its half-year report, “We received information alleging that some of our independent sales consultants, members of our JForce programme in Nigeria, may have engaged in improper sales practices. “In response, we launched a review of sales practices covering all our countries of operation and data from January 1, 2017 to June 30, 2019. “We have terminated the employees and JForce agents involved, removed the sellers implicated and implemented measures designed to prevent similar instances in the future. The review of this matter is closed.” In a new development, Jumia said investigations further showed that improper orders were placed at a time, which involved the JForce programme, and then subsequently cancelled. “We believe that the transactions in question generated approximately two per cent of our GMV in 2018, concentrated in the fourth quarter of 2018, approximately four per cent in the first quarter of 2019 and approximately 0.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2019,” the company said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com