Oladimeji Ramon The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has urged manufacturers operating in the state to use biodegradable or recyclable materials in the packaging of their products. He said the appeal became important to enhance waste management in the state. The governor, according to a statement on Thursday, made the appeal at the 6th Lagos Public Relations Stakeholders’ Conference, where he was represented by the state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso. Speaking at the conference with the theme, “Conversations to promote environmental sustainability in Nigeria,” Sanwo-Olu urged the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations to play a lead role in government’s advocacy for cleaner Lagos. He added that citizens must understand that effective waste management starts from individual household, where waste must be properly bagged and sorted to facilitate recycling. He said, “You will recollect that at the inception of our administration, I signed an executive order with clear instructions to the management of Lagos State Waste Management Authority to implement strategies that will ensure proper and efficient evacuation and disposal of waste across the state. Also, we reactivated the dormant landfill sites, as well as waste transfer loading stations located at strategic areas in the state. “We will continue to solicit the cooperation of manufacturers in the production or usage of recyclable or biodegradable materials. “I call on all stakeholders to support strategies and programmes aimed at ensuring environmental sustainability of the ‘Smart City of Lagos’. “It is a collective responsibility in which the Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations has a role to play especially in the area of public sensitisation and advocacy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   