Oluwatobi Akindele Four persons were feared killed in a supremacy battle between members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities in the Oworonshoki area of Lagos on Wednesday. PUNCH Metro gathered that the streets affected by the clash, which started around 5.58am, were Olopomeji, Ifako, L and K, and Salami. The suspected cultists reportedly used machetes and other weapons on each other and killed four persons. It was gathered that a suspect was arrested by policemen from the Oworonshoki Police Station over the incident. Residents and business owners expressed concern over the level of insecurity in the community, adding that the clash had been ongoing since Sunday. One of the residents, Balogun Oriowo, said one of the victims was a ticket vendor for the National Union of Road Transport Workers. He said, “The groups have been fighting since Sunday; we don’t know why they were fighting but it was today that they killed people. The death toll is about four now and one of the victims was a ticket vendor for the NURTW. “He did not engage in any fight with them, but he was cut to death with machete while doing his job. His name is Mumin Shobande and he was 32 years old.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, however, said only one person was killed in the clash, adding that men of the Operation Crush had been deployed in the area to restore order. READ ALSO: Three Ogun vigilantes arrested for robbery, student’s death He stated, “The fight was between two rival cults. The clash started around 5.58am on Salami Street, Oworonshoki, and from our record, only one person was killed. The body has been moved to the mortuary. “One suspect, Yusuf Adisa, has also been arrested by the operatives of the Oworonshoki Police Station. We are going after the cultists and there is an ongoing operation in the area by the Operation Crush to round up the other suspects. Security has been beefed up in the area with more patrol policemen deployed. So, no cause for alarm; the area is now safe.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 