Nike Popoola FSDH Research expects July inflation rate to drop to 11.01 per cent from 11.22 per cent recorded in June 2019. The arm of FSDH Merchant Bank stated this in its monthly economic and financial markets outlook with the theme, ‘Easy money: time to create buffers.’ The research noted in its previous inflation reports that it was unlikely that Nigeria would achieve a single-digit inflation rate in the short term. It also said there was a need for companies and countries to build buffers to protect themselves against the impact of trade tensions among countries in the international space. “If the current trade tension between the United States and China subsided and the economic growth in the two countries returned to an upward trend, there may not be a need for excessive expansionary monetary policy,” it stated. The FSDH analysts further indicated that developments in the US and China affected the global economy as the two countries accounted for about 40 per cent of the global economy in terms of Gross Domestic Product. “The two countries also accounted for about 33 per cent of total global demand for crude oil,” they added. This also meant that developments in these countries may affect the demand for crude oil and lead to a price drop. The US, Euro Area, China, Japan, United Kingdom and India collectively accounted for about 69 per cent of the global economy. FSDH Research stated that if the economic outlook of these regions improves, the low interest rate may change and there may be capital flight from Nigeria. “This may hurt the economy and the financial market if there are no buffers in place to counter the negative implications that may follow,” it stated. The low yield on fixed income securities in Nigeria was already impacting on the total Foreign Portfolio Invrstors inflows through the Investors and Exporters’ Foreign Exchange Window, according to the research. Between January and July 2019, Nigeria recorded the lowest FPI through the I & E FX window in July, both in absolute number and as a ratio to the total. Although FSDH Research has advocated increased Foreign Direct Investment in the country. “Companies may wish to issue debt capital at this moment to expand business operations and create additional lines of business that could generate improved earnings for them,” it added. The research said that when the financial market became tight again with rising interest rates, companies might then modify their capital structure in favour of equity capital and hopefully, their earnings would have grown in order to eliminate the dilutive effect of increased equity capital of return on equity. Copyright PUNCH.                
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com