Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Federal Government has said about ten million pupils are currently benefitting from its homegrown school feeding programme. The Special Adviser to the President on Social Investment, Mrs Maryam Uwais, said this on Friday when she led the management team of the National Social Investments Programme on a visit to the new Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba. The presidential aide, who briefed the minister on the activities of the NSIO and the level of implementation of the various components of the programme, said the initiative had made huge impact on the socio-economic well-being of millions of poor and vulnerable citizens. She told the minister that the beneficiaries of the programme were in 32 states of the federation, adding that about 400,000 poor and vulnerable households in 25 states including those in  Borno’s Internally Displaced Persons camps were enrolled into the National Cash Transfer Programme. This, according to her, is in addition to over two million people who had benefitted from interest-free loans through Marketmoni, Tradermoni and Farmermoni facilitated under the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme. Uwais described the N-Power Programme, which had engaged over 540,000 young people in all the 774 local government areas of the country, as a veritable platform for the youths to explore their potential. She said, “We are doing very well with the N-power Innovation hubs, which have been quite successful. With one innovation hub in every geopolitical zone in the country, young people who have brilliant ideas can now be effectively engaged. “Each hub has its own theme that is relevant to the peculiarities of the zone it is situated. For instance, the North-East is more about humanitarian issues just as the South-South hub focuses on oil and gas, education, security, among other areas. “The good news is that we have seen our young people leverage this platform to create apps and other devices that provide solutions to everyday problems. “We are encouraged by these success stories as we remain determined and focused on achieving greater results through the SIPs to actualise the vision of Mr President.” She, however, called for increased funding to close existing gaps for better service delivery. “We really would need an increase in funding every month if we are to sustain these programmes. We also look forward to continued and even more formidable collaboration between our office and your ministry so that we can be able to do much more for our citizens, who had hitherto not been impacted by government. “The President has given us a target to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in ten years. This can definitely be achieved if we have the required funds to drive and sustain these programmes,” she added. Agba in his comments assured the implementation team of more support from his ministry. He said it was the desire of the Federal Government to adequately fund its projects to achieve set targets. The minister called for data integration for proper planning and execution of government programmes and projects. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 