Archbishop Adewale Martins of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos on Thursday condemned the recent promotion of nudity instead of chastity in the name of entertainment, prevalent among the youth. The prelate spoke during the final profession of seven Reverend Sisters of the Congregation of Eucharistic Heart of Jesus at Saint Agnes Catholic Church, Maryland in Lagos. “Our musicians and the entertainment industry as a whole do not care about morality and fear of God anymore. “They are busy promoting nudity through their profession,” he said. READ ALSO: FG’ll open power market to new investors –Osinbajo The prelate urged Nigerians to pray for God’s mercy so that both the young and the old would be able to uphold chastity and practise obedience at the expense of nudity. Martins said that the world had lost obedience and respect for chastity and morality and thus thrown morals and decency to the winds. According to him, freedom has been mistaken for licence and that is one of the reasons the world has lost the conscience of decency and morality. He said that the world, comprising those in the religious circle and the rest of the society had stopped seen the need to practise chastity. “There is no more obedience to chastity; we need to pray for our priests and religious so that they will be able to avoid the various challenges facing them in the world. He said that as the Catholic Church throughout the world celebrated the feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary on Thursday, they should also uphold chastity which she symbolised during her lifetime. He said, “Let us congratulate these seven sisters and their families for this life of sacrifice because we are able to gather around these sisters who had been renewing their temporary vows in the past eight years. “This profession is made possible because they have decided to live that life of chastity by taking their vows to commit their lives to total obedience, chastity and service of God,” he said. The archbishop in his advice to the newly professed sisters urged them not to abuse the vows and the promise of total obedience and chastity they had made. (NAN)