Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Task Force on Environment and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit has impounded 125 motorcycles plying restricted routes in the state. It was learnt that the motorcycles were seized during an enforcement operation around Ejigbo and Cele bus stop areas of the state. The Chairman of the agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, said in a statement on Thursday that the task force was forced to clamp down on the motorcyclists due to a series of complaints received from members of the public about criminal activities being perpetrated by illegal commercial motorcyclists. He said, “We are going to make sure that there is total compliance with the Lagos Traffic Regulations by all commercial motorcyclists in all our local governments and local council development areas as well as by those operating in inner streets. “In accordance with the traffic laws, every motorcyclist must wear crash helmet; be above 18 years; avoid restricted routes; not carry more than one passenger, pregnant woman, adult with baby or child below 12 years; not install any musical gadgets; must wear an apron; not operate beyond 10pm; operate with a rider’s permit; and have the motorcycle registered with the government.” Egbeyemi, who noted that research showed that most illegal motorcyclists were from neighbouring countries, urged all commercial motorcyclists in the state to ensure that their motorcycles were duly registered with the government as anyone caught would be dealt with in accordance with the law. While urging members of the public to keep their valuables safe in traffic, the task force boss solicited the cooperation of all residents in providing useful information about criminal activities around them to security agencies through the emergency toll-free lines, 112 and 767. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 