The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has described its raid on the houses of ex-Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, as “part of investigations,” rather than a raid. The EFCC, on Tuesday, raided two houses belonging to Ambode located in Park View Estate, Ikoyi, and Epe, both in Lagos State. According to an ex-aide to the governor, who spoke with The PUNCH on condition of anonymity, Ambode is currently out of Nigeria, and the EFCC carried out its “investigation” in Ambode’s absence. In a statement issued by the EFCC spokesman, Toni Orilade, after the media had reported the raids, the anti-graft commission said since Ambode no longer enjoys immunity, it was merely investigating him and that the raids of his houses were part of its investigation, and not a raid. The statement read, “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has since early hours of today, been inundated with calls that operatives of the Commission raided the residence of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode. “We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors is under investigation, since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. READ ALSO: EFCC raids Ambode’s home in Epe “The Commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence.
Whatever the Commission is presently doing with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law. “We wish to inform the social media to be circumspect in the reportage of any news with regards to investigation activities of the Commission. “As a tradition, the Commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court. “Therefore, the attempt to cast the Commission in a bad light is unacceptable as the EFCC will never engage in illegal act. We remain committed to the war against corruption.”