Olaide Oyelude, Katsina Some assailants have attacked a Katsina-based housewife, Rabi Ado, and her two children, Yahaya and Zainab Ismail, with a liquid substance suspected to be acid at their home in the Layin Shehii Quarter, Dandume, Katsina State. The attackers reportedly poured the substance on the victims through the window while they slept. As a result, Rabi and her children are currently receiving medical attention at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika, Zaria, Kaduna State. The trio suffered serious burns in the back and shoulders. It was further learnt that cries of agony by the victims forced their neighbours awake. One of the neighbours, who pleaded anonymity for fear of retribution said, “Their cries woke us up and by the time we forced the door to their room open, the woman and her children were in serious pain. “We then mobilised and took them to a nearby hospital, from where they were transferred to the teaching hospital at Zika, because of the extent of the injuries.” Rabi, it was gathered, was estranged from her husband. Our correspondent was not allowed to see the victims in the hospital as medical officials said their condition had yet to stabilise. Another source, who also pleaded anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the media on the case, said the attacker(s) must have been close to the window. When contacted, the spokesman for the Katsina State Police Command, ASP Anaz Gizewa, confirmed the incident, saying the police were doing everything possible to bring the perpetrator(s) to justice. Gizawa stated, “One Rabi Ado, wife to one Ismail Gilima of Layin Shehi Quarter, Dandume, was assaulted by (an unknown person(s), who threw some liquid substances suspected to be acidic on her and her children through the window while they were asleep. “As a result, she sustained some burns and scalds on her back and shoulder. Her children, Yahaya Ismail and Zainab Ismail, were also affected. READ ALSO: Canada is ‘stealing’ our young people! “They are currently receiving treatment at the ABU Teaching Hospital, Shika, Zaria. The family of the victims were contacted and they confirmed the incident. They further stated that they were strongly suspecting the husband, Ismail, for being responsible for the attack due to the fact that he and the wife had a case in court. “The wife is seeking divorce from him.  He was informed of the incident via the phone, but up until now, he has refused to show up. “However, we have already liaised with the victim’s family to trace him and get him arrested.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 