• Nigerians raise posers for police Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe As Nigerians continue to ask questions following the release of a murder suspect, the Ogun State Police Command said on Wednesday that the farmer, Segun Adekoya, on whose poultry farm the decomposing body of his worker was found, was asked to go home because there was no evidence yet linking him to the incident. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, explained that the police had not freed Adekoya, but decided to release him until investigation would indict him or confirm his innocence. PUNCH Metro had reported that police personnel discovered the decomposing body of a 25-year-old farm worker, Ismaila Ogunsola, on the poultry farm situated on the Adejunrin Road, Owode Egba, on August 15, with his family alleging that he was murdered by his boss, Adekoya. The police had initially said Adekoya murdered Ogunsola and hid his body in a mango tree after luring him out of his parents’ house on Eid-el-Kabir day on the pretext that he wanted to pay his salary. Ogunsola’s mother, Modinat Kareem, who noted that the police had released Adekoya but kept her son’s colleague in detention, expressed concern that her son might not get justice, adding that the police were trying to sabotage the case by releasing the prime suspect. Readers of PUNCH Online, while reacting to the claim by the PPRO, that the command was investigating a case of suicide and had released Adekoya, urged The PUNCH to ensure that the deceased’s family got justice. A reader from Ijagbo in Oyun Local Government Area of Kwara State, J. D. Korode, in an SMS sent to PUNCH Metro on Wednesday, wrote, “Equal before the law? If truly it’s a suicide case, why was one released but the other detained? Which of the two aided and abetted the dead to commit ‘suicide’? Dismissing the side of the story of the family of the dead is sad.” An online reader with the username, silvermagnum, said, “PUNCH should please stay on this story till it comes to a logical conclusion.” Another online reader with the username, Steve Igwebuike, commented, “The only hope the family has now is the press. The PUNCH should please make it their responsibility to help the family get to the root of the issue.” Another reader with the username, Nigeria, simply wrote: “Suicide? Liars.” However, when our correspondent confronted Oyeyemi with the posers and the fact that the pictures taken from where the corpse was recovered showed that the deceased was covered in dirt and seemingly placed in a sitting position on branches of the mango tree without dangling from the rope on his neck, insisted that Adekoya was not on the farm on the day of the incident. He added that Ogunsola’s colleague, Sule Crepin, was being detained because he was on the farm on the day of the incident. Oyeyemi stated, “The case we are investigating is a case of suicide; this man was found hanging on a mango tree on a farm and the person arrested was the owner of the farm, who was not around when the incident occurred, so, we have every right to release him, because we could not link him with anything that had to do with the man’s death. “The other person is being detained because we are still looking at the possibility of him knowing something about the death as it was the two of them who were there that day. We are still waiting for the autopsy report from the hospital. “Though we are investigating a case of suicide, we are still exploring every avenue to determine if it was a case of suicide or somebody killed him. We cannot accuse or continue to detain the owner of the farm, who was not around at the time of the incident. “Our investigation so far did not link him with the death of Ogunsola, but that does not foreclose that he is free; he can be invited again if we have any lead linking him with the man’s death.” Adekoya, in his defence, said he got to know about Ogunsola’s disappearance through Sule, who put a call across to notify him of the development. He said, “On August 11, 2019, I got a call from Sule Crepin, one of the two farm workers on the farm of Offshore Agro Limitedd located in Owode Egba, Ogun State, who reported a development about his colleague, Ismaila Ogunsola, that morning. “According to Sule, he heard a knock on the farm gate early that morning only to discover that it was Ogunsola, and he felt happy to see him as that meant a reduction in his own workload. He reported that they exchanged pleasantries and he asked Ogunsola to change to the farm uniform and join him to complete the remaining tasks for that morning. “When he waited a while and did not see Ogunsola, he proceeded to look for him at the staff quarters, but he did not find him anywhere around. After a brief search, he said he concluded that Ogunsola must have jumped  over the fence to go out as the gates were locked. “I got a call from Sule and I immediately tried to call Ogunsola, but his calls were unanswered. I called Sule back and told him that I was unable to reach him. I thereafter informed one of the other directors, Wale Ajisafe, about the incident and decided to monitor the situation until we were able to reach Ogunsola on the telephone. “That Sunday was the day my extended family marked the fourth-year remembrance of my late aunt and I was actively involved in the organisation of the event on Tapa Street, Ebute Meta, Lagos. I spent the day solely for this purpose.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com