The Chief Executive Officer, Destiny Crafts, Blessing Taimako, 21, tells UDOCHI OGUBUIKE, about the challenges she faces in the course of running her business What is your educational background? I hold a National Diploma in Business Administration and Management from Kaduna Polytechnic. Do you have any experience in the corporate world? Yes. I worked at a company called, Northern Noodles, Kaduna, for my industrial training while in school. When and how did you learn crafts making? I learnt the craft on the Internet– YouTube to be precise. I really enjoy going through the Internet as it enables me to learn new things and update the previous knowledge I had. Around June last year, I came across a tutorial video about the pompom rug making and ever since, I became hooked. For how long have you been in the business? Destiny Crafts was founded in June 2018, and we produced our first handmade rug in March 2019. It has been both a learning and practical journey for me. What motivated you to establish your own business? I have always dreamt of owning my business and my background served as a motivating factor in pushing me harder to attain my dream. This is because I grew up in a family that passed through and is still going through some financial struggles. Also, I am an independent young lady who wants to grow a business that will be of benefit to me and the society. I want to challenge young ladies out there to be better in all they do and not just think about marriage. What are the major challenges you’ve faced over the years? The major challenge, so far, is capital to run the business, and customers to patronise us. With capital, I can get the raw materials, manufacture and advertise my products. How do you get customers? Destiny Crafts is active on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. This is used to reach out to customers online, and our targets are hotels, offices, restaurants, schools and even homes. Have you ever thought of quitting your business and seeking paid employment? Yes, I do feel that way, especially at this moment of growth. Sometimes, I get frustrated when customers say they will get back to me but never do. However, I thank God for the kind of people I am surrounded with– they are great motivators. Is your business registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission? No, it is not yet registered, but we will do so soon. How profitable is the business? The profitability of the business is about 80 per cent, but right now, because of lack of finance, I am not able to reap from it as I should. What other skills do you possess? I am also good at fashion designing, which I’ve been doing for about seven years. Aside Destiny Crafts, I also have a dream of owning one of the best fashion houses in the world. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? In the next five years, I hope to be one of the most prominent rug manufacturers in Nigeria, with a training school that will help boost entrepreneurship among young people, so that they can create jobs for themselves, instead of waiting for the government with no hope. Considering that many parents want their children to concentrate fully on education and seek white collar jobs, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship? There is hope for every entrepreneur out there who is willing to embrace his or her dreams by working towards it to make it a reality. I believe in potential and turning same to reality, using determination as one’s set tool. Do you have any employees? At the moment, I don’t have any employees. It is still a one-man business for now but eventually, when the business begins to grow, I will bring in more hands. What’s the most influential factor in your business success? The most influential factors anyone can have while running a business are determination, hard work, and dedication. These are what keep me going, and push me to do better. If you had one piece of advice to someone just starting out, what would it be? Never give up on your dreams because doing so means giving up on life generally. You should be prayerful, hardworking and turn whatever you love doing into a business and see as you would succeed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 