Greenwich Asset Management Limited on Monday listed its Greenwich Alpha Exchange Traded Fund on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The NSE said in a statement that the ETF units were listed at N100 each following an Initial Public Offer on Monday. Greenwich Alpha is an open-ended ETF that tracks the NSE 30 Index, an index which constitutes 30 of the most liquid and capitalised stocks trading on the Exchange. The ETF is designed for investors to access the constituent companies of the NSE 30 index, thereby getting the performance of the index. The Managing Director, Greenwich Asset Management, Mr Dayo Obisan, while speaking at the listing, said the Greenwich Alpha ETF Fund was designed for and offered to investors seeking exposure to the Nigerian equities market, particularly to the constituents of the NSE-30 index. He said, “The Alpha ETF offers the full benefits of diversification through a single transaction, thereby reducing associated transaction cost and helping investors spread their risk. “We will continue to encourage retail and institutional investment in this fund based on its potential.” The Head, Trading Business Division, NSE, Mr Jude Chiemeka, said, “We are delighted to welcome Greenwich Asset Management Limited to our growing list of the ETF providers. “Globally, ETFs continue to make some impact as an effective tool for accessing the market, diversifying investments, and it serves as an alternative investment solution for intermediaries to recommend to their clients.” He said as the leading stock exchange for listing and trading ETFs in West Africa, the NSE would continue to lead innovation in the market, as well as support the issuance of products and investment vehicles that meet the objectives of investors. Chiemeka stated that the NSE operated an efficient, orderly and transparent market based on cutting-edge technology to support product development efforts for the benefit of all investors. He added that the NSE remained resolute in its commitment to partnering all market stakeholders to continue to build and develop the Nigerian capital market, while offering a wide range of investment vehicles for all investors. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 