Ademola Babalola, Ibadan For several hours on Thursday, leaders of the Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party protested against the nomination of  27-year-old Seun Fakorede as a commissioner at the screening session of the state house of assembly. The ruling party described his nomination as unguarded, ‘because the new commissioner is from the opposition All Progressives Congress.” Justifying their calls for the nullification of his nomination, the PDP leaders in the Ibarapa North Local Government Area, led by the senatorial chairman of Oyo South, Sir Samuel Olawuwo, said both Fakorede and his father had long left the party and worked against the victory of Governor Seyi Makinde. He said “We are not here quarrelling with the governor at all. We are not quarrelling with the Speaker. But we only want to express our concern about the man they picked. His father is a staunch member of the APC.” However, in a counter protest, the Chairman of the Oyo State chapter of the National Association of Nigerian Students, identified simply as Omosile, who led other students to declare support for Fakorede, said, “We are here today to solidarise with our brother, Seun Fakorede, on his nomination as a commissioner. This is a laudable nomination because for years, youths have been on the frontline of advocating that youths should be represented by youths.” “I don’t know any party affiliations, but NANS as a  body doesn’t care about party affiliations. What we care about is development. What we care about is competence. From the look of things and our background checks and intelligence reports, Fakorede is fit enough to lead the state Ministry of Youth and Sports.” The lawmakers, however, went on to approved the three nominees sent by the Governor. Aside Fakorede, the other nominees screened and confirmed as commissioners included Prof. Raphael Afonja and Mrs Fausat Sani. But when contacted on the call for the nullification of his nomination, Fakorede said the issue is an internal matter that would be settled in due course. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com