The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Siemens Limited Nigeria, Mrs Onyeche Tifase, in this interview with ’FEMI ASU, sheds more light on the Nigeria-Siemens electrification project The Federal Government and Siemens AG signed the Nigeria Electrification Road map last month. What does it mean for the country and your company? Siemens and other key power sector stakeholders attended the signing ceremony at the Presidency. And by stakeholders, I mean the public and private sector representatives, Ministry of Power, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, the Transmission Company of Nigeria and the Bureau of Public Enterprise, and the distribution companies. We’ve been working with the government for almost a year now, developing a road map for Nigeria’s electrification and we have signed a groundbreaking implementation agreement as a first step towards a firm deal to start a three-phase project to electrify Nigeria. What it means for Nigeria is that the country desperately needs greater capacity. They need a stronger and smarter grid and these are all components of what we are delivering in a three-phase project. Phase one ensures that whatever capacity is stranded in the grid, about two gigawatts, will be evacuated to achieve about 27 gigawatts of power delivered to all consumers. Phase two enables further expansion of the grid to evacuate 11 gigawatts. And phase three ensures that whatever balance of power generation is needed and expansion of grid to achieve 25 gigawatts of capacity would be delivered. So, for Nigeria, it has massive implications for the economy, for employment opportunities – and not just basic employment in the informal and formal sectors; it will engender more innovation in the Small and Medium Enterprise space. It will also drive the growth of the economy. It will address a lot of the security and stability issues that we have nowadays due to the lack of electricity. Most importantly, it will drive industrialisation. For Siemens, what is key is that we have a unique ability to be able to tie in all ends of the electrification value chain. We have a portfolio across generation, transmission and distribution, and we have a unique ability to deliver not just concrete solutions but also complementary services, training, integration and management as well as consulting, advisory, support and grid studies. Even the software for the grid, we are able to bring this and complement it with the infrastructure for the hardware; even the software that is needed to run the systems and deliver an end-to-end solution that closes all gaps that have been identified. So, it positions us well and it enables us to leverage our full capacity across the electrification value chain and it’s a very good business opportunity for us. But it is also a way to create a trusted relationship with Nigeria and the Nigerian government to do even more for the Nigerian economy When do you expect this initiative to commence? What we are planning to do immediately is to start to understand the big problems out there a bit better; so, we will dig deeper. One of the first things we would do is a very detailed grid study that will provide a perspective of where the power sector should be at different horizons years from now, and what needs to be done to get there. It will complement what the existing issues are with future plans. And while we are doing that, we will also, at the same time, be structuring the financing that is needed to get this project going and that will take us some months. Once that is done, we will be able to kick-start the project or hopefully enter into a strong legal agreement with the government to get this going and move the electrification road map forward. Aren’t you bothered that the power sector is currently facing a liquidity challenge that even the regulator is worried about? Don’t you think this might hamper what you want to do? On the liquidity challenge, I think the issues are well understood but the problem is how to resolve them. I think that’s why it was a collaborative effort to understand in very deep detail the issues that the distribution companies are facing and fashion out solutions that will resolve those issues. The liquidity issues have to do with the entire value chain – they are about the technical losses; the commercial and non-commercial losses and we all know what makes up those three components and Siemens is saying we can resolve those solutions through various systems – our smart metering technology that enables you to manage meter tampering; manage energy theft; has a direct impact on improving your ATC&C losses; with our improved equipment that reduces your technical losses; there is stronger and more reliable connection. You improve the quality of the grid as well. So, I think all these things have impact on the losses that we are facing and these losses are financial losses. The idea is to transform the sector into a profitable one in a short time; and the only way you can do that is to spend money. I think one of the benefits we bring to this initiative is that we are structuring very low-interest financing for the project to be done, lower than what you can access locally. That is where Germany comes in. Is the project just about Siemens or you’re partnering other companies to achieve this? I spoke about structuring the financing for the project and one key aspect of it that we are very much in favour of is the strong local content requirements. So, it means we must be able to source materials, skills and services locally. We must be able to work with local partners to fulfil a quite significant portion of the project. So, there would be value for Nigerians and there is certain equipment we’ve said would not even be strategic for Siemens to supply. We are providing an end-to-end metering solution but that’s more from a software side. We are not going to be supplying meters because we know such things can be assembled locally. We are also enabling a very strong culture of knowledge exchange and technology development. So, we may be sharing our own best know-how on how to build some of the equipment – share that knowledge with local companies. In some instances, we can even license them to be our local assembling partners or they can set up their own independent entities to be able to supply some of the equipment we need that Siemens doesn’t manufacture. There is a strong local content component and we’re very happy to ensure that it is fully fulfilled. Will this initiative translate to the expansion of your operations in Nigeria? Since it’s a national project, we’re not leaving any part of the country out of our plans. We have to have a set-up that enables us to access different parts of the country, especially high-growth areas – where there is high population density. This would require different business models. In some instances, I’ve told you we will be working more with local companies. We’ll be sourcing services from local companies. We’re not just supplying products; we’re providing services and after-product supply services. We will definitely have to have in-country set-up. It will depend on where the need is; what kind of module do we have to apply to be able to satisfy that need and how best to ensure that we are partnering local companies to do that. In essence, the idea is not to flood the country with Germans or Siemens people but to empower Nigerians to be able to supply some of those services that we require and see more local businesses pop up than seeing more Siemens facilities across the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com