Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt NO fewer than three persons were killed on Sunday in Opuoko and Lumene communities in the Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State when a group of suspected cultists invaded the area. The suspected cultists also attacked the houses of the council chairman and youth leader in the area during the invasion that happened around 6.30am. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said while one person was mowed down in Opuoko, two other victims were killed in the Lumene community. Omoni explained that two suspects, Damwua Karagbara, 33, and Prince Dinee, 23, were arrested by the police, who came to rescue the situation. He stated that the suspected cultists took to their heels on sighting security personnel, adding that assorted phones and military camouflage were recovered from the hoodlums. Omoni said, “Today (Sunday), August 18, 2019, around 6.30am, information got to us that a group of cult boys invaded two communities in Khana, where they attacked and killed one person in Opuoko and two in Lumene. “Altogether, three persons died. The houses of the local government chairman and the former youth leader came under attack. The attackers, on sighting the police, took flight, but were chased and two of them were arrested, while the trail for the others is still on. “The two suspects are Damwua Karagbara, alias Spider, 33, and Dinee Prince, 23. Exhibits recovered from them include assorted phones and military camouflage.” He, however, said calm had returned to both communities, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura, had ordered an investigation into the incident with a view to ascertaining the remote and immediate causes of the attack. The PPRO dismissed claims in the social media that 16 persons were killed during the invasion of the two communities, describing the reports as fake news. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 