Tony Okafor, Awka The Anambra State Police Command, on Monday, paraded a man, Hassan Abuka, who impersonated a Deputy Superintendent of Police to snatch cars. Abuka, 33, said to be a native of Otukpo in Benue State, was arrested with his accomplice, Ismaila Ahmed, 37, of the same area. The Anambra State Commissioner of Police, John Abang, said this while parading the suspects at the state police headquarters in Amawbia. He said the suspects were arrested in the Ihiala Local Government Area of the state. Abang stated, “Following intelligence report, police operatives attached to the command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad arrested in Ihiala, one Hassan Abuka, 33, from Otukpo, Benue State, who was fully dressed in police camouflage uniform bearing the rank of a DSP, and one Ismaila Ahmed, 37, also from Otukpo, Benue State. “The suspects, who specialised in impersonating police officers to deceive their victims, snatched a Toyota Corolla with number plate Lagos AGL 357 FC from a yet-to-be identified victim in Lagos and were arrested at their hideout in Anambra State. “Exhibits recovered in their possession include the snatched vehicle and a vehicle plate number Lagos FKJ 701 FR.” The CP added that the suspects had voluntarily confessed to the crime and were assisting the police with useful information that could aid investigation after which they would be charged. In a related development, Abang said in order to stem the tide of recent cult attacks in Awka, the command had launched a manhunt of their sponsors, four of whom had been arrested following intelligence report. He stated, “The command’s Operation Puff Adder operatives, led by me, had launched a manhunt for the hoodlums in Awka and arrested four suspected sponsors/members of the Black Axe and Vikings confraternities, who were allegedly behind the recent attacks. READ ALSO: Katsina bandits gun down four, herders kill bandit “The command is investigating the allegations and will bring the perpetrators to justice when a prima facie case is established against them. “One major factor responsible for the overall successes recorded by the command was the support of the good people of the state, who were observed to have been extremely law-abiding and very cooperative with the personnel of the security agencies.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 