Adeniyi Olugbemi, Sokoto Governments at all levels and private organisations have been told to continue to dialogue with workers in order to bring out the best in the discharge of their duties. A Permanent Secretary in the office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation Dr Magdalene Ajani, stated this in her address delivered at the 2019 meetings of the National Public Service Negotiating Councils I, II, and III held at Giginya hotels in Sokoto. She said, “It is pertinent to state that every platform of employer-employee interface on industrial relations management are meant for positive sharing of ideas, alignment of interest and charting common courses to progressively address workers’ welfare and conditions of service. “Accordingly, the goal of government therefore is to deploy alternative but integral platforms of consultation, dialogue and mediation to timely address agitations, demands and dispute in the public service in order to sustain the mutually beneficial relationship between government and labour.” In her goodwill message, the outgoing Chairman of the council and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, commended members for their contributions during the negotiations of National Minimum Wage. She said, “Together we negotiated a new national minimum wage of 30,000 only, at the national minimum wage implementation committee.” Meanwhile, the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, assured the gathering that his administration would continue to work in synergy with the state civil servants towards the development of the state. “This is borne out of the fact that labour constitutes the greatest assets of government that is readily used in facilitating the conduct of government business. With this in mind, Sokoto State has been working assiduously to guarantee payment of workers’ monthly salaries and retirees’ pension as and when due.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 