Ted Odogwu, Kano The Kano zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, on Monday, confirmed that it has so far, recovered, over N798. 5 million from various suspects indicted in financial-related offences between January and August this year in the State Also, the Commission disclosed that over 51 various cases were currently being prosecuted at different courts in the state. Giving an update on the activities of the zone at its Head Office in Kano, the Zonal Head of the Commission, ACP Akaninyene Ezima, said over 280 suspects have so far been arrested this year for various financial related offences. According to Ezima, the Commission’s operatives, attached to the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, recovered over $690, 400 (N248, 544, 000) from three intending passengers in their attempt to launder the hard currency abroad. He said ”So far, we have 51 various cases currently ongoing in the courts, which are at different stages of completion but right now, we have legal vacation and once the vacation is over, we will resume. READ ALSO: Group storms UK Embassy, protest $9.6bn judgement “On money laundering, we have been able to recover N550 million from January to August this year. ”Over 280 suspects have been arrested for committing various offences this year, Several of them are in court and in different stages of investigations. ”Also, $690,400 was recovered from three passengers by operatives of the EFCC at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, who were in the process of travelling out of the country.” ”However, there are certain areas of concern to us, not only as a Commission but also as a Zone, and that is the issue of cybercrime. We are all aware of the challenges, cybercrime has posed to the Commission, as well as the bad name that a few individuals have given us as a country. ”So, we in the Kano Zonal office will not rest on our oars, as the Chairman had directed that we should go all out and ensure that we stamp out this menace. With this disturbing development, the Kano zone, have developed a lot of intelligence, in order to ensure that we combat this menace head-on.