Peter Dada, Akure Contractors hired by the Niger Delta Development Commission have commenced work on the rehabilitation of some roads in the Akoko area of Ondo State. It was gathered that some of the contracts for the roads in the area were awarded in April 2019 but they were not funded. It was also gathered that work began on the roads through the intervention of the House of Representatives. Some of the roads under repair include Ajowa-Akunu road and Ogbagi-Ese-Irun road in the Akoko-North East/West Federal Constituency. Speaking on the development, a federal lawmaker and Chairman, House Committee on NDDC, Mr Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, said the bad condition of the roads in the Akoko area had affected the economic activities of the people of the constituency. He said the rehabilitation was in response to the yearnings of his constituents whose economic activities had been adversely affected by the deplorable state of the roads. He said, “We are concerned about the bad state of roads in Ondo State, particularly in my federal constituency. But work has started on some of the roads. If the roads are good, the business and economy of our people would improve. The contractors have begun work on the roads.” The traditional rulers in the area under the auspices of the Akoko Council of Traditional Rulers commended the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, for appointing Tunji-Ojo as the chairman of committee on NDDC, saying the people had been feeling his impact. In the statement signed by the Chairman of the council, the Owa of Ogbagi Akoko, Oba Victor Adetona; Secretary, the Oniyani of Iyani Akoko, Oba Joel Daodu; and other monarchs, the council also congratulated Tunji-Ojo on his appointment. “We have never doubted his competence and capacity to make us proud and attract development to Akokoland and Ondo State. This informed why we fully supported him during the last elections. We are proud he is already making us proud in the short time he has spent in the House,” the monarch stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 