Hindi Livinus Fear and confusion have gripped residents of Konkol community in  Adamawa State following increased security presence in the area after the interception of  six  Mine  Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles in the place recently. The community is on the border between Nigeria and Cameroon. The vehicles are being  kept by  the Nigeria Customs Service. Meanwhile, more facts have emerged from the customs over  the military hardware intercepted  by  a  patrol team made up of  the  security agencies. Controversy had surrounded the seizure, following an online picture  appearing  to show  the Brigade Commander 23rd Armoured Brigade, Brig Gen Sani Mohammed, handing the vehicles over to  the Controller of  the NCS  in  Adamawa, Kamardeen Olumoh. But a source, who spoke to our correspondent in Yola said the vehicles   were to be driven to  Niger Republic. According to the source, they were seized allegedly on the instructions of the Presidency. The  source claimed the  American-made vehicles  were reportedly brought  into the country  from  Cameroon as part of  the consignment for the use of the American African Command  base being set up in Niamey. But the development is stoking fears  among Konkol  residents  as the security agencies had increased their  patrol of the area. Uba Yakubu, a resident of Konkol, in Fufore Local Government Area, who spoke to our correspondent  on the  phone, expressed concern  over the development. He said the government needed  to probe the incident  and make its findings public because there was  a “growing feeling of distrust by the citizens of the government when it comes to its handling of security”. He added, “The government has to quickly probe this seizure of the  vehicles  so that we can sleep with our eyes closed. Nobody really knows what is happening in this country because this is how the Boko Haram insurgency escalated in the North-East, as the government has not been open. “If the intercepted vehicles were from Boko Haram collaborators, we want the government to tell us instead of keeping us in the dark.” Usman Babalele, another resident, said the concern of those in the area  was  that the customs and immigration had failed to arrest  smugglers who had become notorious for using the community as a major smuggling route until the interception  of the  military hardware. He said the peace of the area had however been disrupted by activities of the  security  agencies in the area which had received uncommon attention since the seizure of the vehicles was publicised. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 