John Alechenu and Ade Adesomoju The convener of #RevolutionNow protest and former presidential candidate, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, on Thursday, commenced a contempt suit against the Director-General of the Department of State Service, Yusuf Bichi, for allegedly disobeying the order granting him bail. Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja had on Tuesday granted bail to Sowore, who had been arrested and kept in the custody of the DSS since August 3, 2019,  on the allegation of calling for “revolution” through the protest that was scheduled for August 5. The judge had dismissed DSS’ objection in granting him bail with the sole condition that he deposit his passport in the registry of the court. Sowore, through his lawyers, submitted his passport to a Deputy Chief Registrar of the court on Wednesday. The legal team also filed an affidavit of compliance with the order of the court and had same served on the DSS. But 24 hours after meeting the bail condition, the DSS had yet to release him. The publisher of Sahara Reporters, through his lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), on Thursday, filed a ‘Notice of consequence of court order’ which is to be served on the DSS as a warning to him that he could be jailed for continuing to violate the court order. “Notice that unless you obey the direction contained in the order of the Federal High Court of Justice, Abuja delivered on September 21, 2019, which ordered you to release the applicant in Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/915/2019 forthwith, you will be guilty of contempt of court and will be liable to be committed to prison. A copy of the said order of court earlier served on you is hereby annexed for your on-the-spot reference. “This court has been informed that even as at today, Thursday, September 26, 2019,  you are yet to comply with the lawful order of the Federal High Court by refusing to release the applicant namely: Omoyele Sowore, in your custody. You are hereby directed to comply with the court order forthwith or you will be guilty of contempt of court.” The DSS, on August 3, arrested Sowore over his alleged call for revolution protest scheduled to hold on September 5. Justice Taiwo, on September 8, granted an ex parte application by the DSS permitting the security agency to keep the activist for 45 days. The 45 days period expired on Saturday. Barely 24 hours to the expiration of the 45 days detention order, the Attorney-General of the Federation’s office filed charges of treasonable felony, cybercrime offences and money laundering against him before the Federal High Court in Abuja. Meanwhile, the Department of State Services has said Sowore was still in custody because his legal team had yet to serve it with a copy of the court order granting him bail. Spokesperson for the DSS, Dr Peter Afunnaya said this in a telephone interview with our correspondent in Abuja, on Thursday. He said the DSS had the highest regard for the laws of the land and would not do anything to undermine law and order. Afunnaya said, “We have not received the court order. His (Sowore’s) counsel is a very senior member of the bar and he knows the process to follow; this process has not been followed. “We have not been fully brought into the process. The service has a duty to protect both the state and the people because both need one another to survive and succeed.” But Falana, Sowore’s lawyer, on Thursday debunked the claim by the DSS that it had not been served with the court order directing the release of the activist from custody. Falana said  Ayuba Adam of the Legal Department of the DSS received the court order on behalf of the agency on September 24, 2019 (Tuesday). The lawyer said, “For the past three days, I have been visiting the headquarters of the DSS in Abuja and I have been talking to the three most senior officers of the agency, no officer of the agency ever said the agency was not served or aware of the court order. “All they kept telling me was that they were still consulting. “Ayuba Adam of the Legal Department of the DSS received the court order on behalf of the agency on September 24, 2019, which was the day the order was made. “I must say that apart from the fact that the DSS has been served with the court order, we have also filed and served on the agency the affidavit of compliance with the court order showing that we have deposited Omoyele Sowore’s passport at the Federal High Court’s registry in Abuja as directed by the court. “They also had their lawyer in court when the order for Sowore’s release was made.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  