Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Police operatives and a vigilance group in Bauchi on Tuesday destroyed a kidnappers’ camp and killed two suspects during an exchange of gunfire. The Bauchi State command’s tactical team attached to Operation Puff Adder in collaboration with Danga security volunteers were said to have trailed some of the suspected kidnappers/armed robbers to their camp in Gali forest, Alkaleri Local Government Area of Bauchi State, at about 8pm. The PUNCH had reported that the police last Sunday foiled a robbery at a filing station at Miri village, along Bauchi-Jos Road and engaged the five robbers who were armed with AK-47 riffles in a gun battle. Exhibits recovered from the crime scene were one AK-47 rifle and 25 rounds of live 7.62mm ammunition. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Kamal Abubakar, in a statement made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Bauchi, said, “Following the ongoing onslaught against crime and criminality in the state, the Bauchi State Police Command under the leadership of Habu Sani, on Tuesday, destroyed a suspected kidnappers’ camp in Alkaleri LGA, shot two suspects and recovered exhibits.” He said the two suspects were severely injured during the gunfire exchange and were taken to the hospital where they were confirmed dead, while the other suspects escaped into the bush with bullet wounds. Abubakar, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, added that no causality was recorded from the police team or any of the volunteering members of the public. He expressed the command’s assurance that it would not rest on its oars in the effort to rid the state of all forms of crime. Abubakar appealed for more support from the public by providing useful information to the police and other security agencies on criminal hideouts in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 