Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Tragedy struck in Iworoko Ekiti on Monday as a 300-level student of the Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti, Bukola Odeyemi, allegedly stabbed her 22-year-old lover, John Iju, to death. The incident, sources said, occurred at one of the private hostels being used by students of the university around 10pm. Sources said the 20-year-old student of the Department of Biology Education had a quarrel with her boyfriend, also a student of the institution, over his inability to give her the N2,500 she requested for a hairdo. According to the sources, the duo engaged in a heated argument over the matter before Odeyemi allegedly picked up a knife and stabbed Iju in the chest. A source said, “The refusal of the boyfriend to meet her demand resulted in a heated argument, which angered the young woman, and both of them started fighting. “During the fight, the deceased was said to have gained the upper hand and Odeyemi saw a sharp knife on the tray and picked it and stabbed him in the chest. “Iju, who suffered a deep cut, fell on the floor with blood gushing out of his chest and he died on the spot. The people around cried for help, but that did not help the situation.” The deceased’s friends were said to have rushed to the Iworoko Police Station to report the incident. They said that it was Iju’s shout for help that attracted them to the scene. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, said, “The incident is confirmed. The suspect has been arrested.” READ ALSO: ‘I became a miscreant after my parents separated’ Ikechukwu, who stated that the police had begun investigation into the matter, added that the suspect would be charged after the conclusion of investigation. “It is so unfortunate that somebody would stab her boyfriend because of N2,500 for a hairdo. Parents should always look out for their children to know what they do in higher institutions. Sometimes, parents should pay surprise visits to their children and wards to know where they stay and monitor their activities,” the PPRO stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 