Etim Ekpimah Eighteen persons were injured on Monday when two Bus Rapid Transit vehicles collided at the Asolo end of the Ikorodu Road in Lagos. One of the buses was said to be heading for Ketu when two motorcycles suddenly emerged on the dedicated BRT lane and the bus driver, in an attempt to avoid hitting them, crashed into an oncoming bus. Last week, three people died when a Dangote Cement truck crashed into a BRT bus in the Ikorodu area of the state. Commenting on Monday’s accident, an eyewitness, who gave her name simply as Funmilayo, said the motorcyclists fled the scene immediately the two vehicles collided. She said she could not tell if the accident claimed any life, but added that she saw people jumping out of both vehicles with some badly injured passengers being assisted to get off. Funmilayo stated, “Initially, when the collision occurred, we thought both drivers were drunk or had fallen asleep. It was later that we got to know that the driver of the bus going to Ketu was avoiding two motorcyclists and their passengers, and while attempting to get back on his track, he collided with the other vehicle, which was too close for the driver to make a sudden swerve. “I don’t know if any passenger died in the accident as it was too early to assess the situation, especially as the accident happened during the rush hours.” The Public Relations Officer of Primero Transport Services, the firm that operates the BRT franchise, Cletus Okordolor, stated that nobody died in the crash. Okordolor said in a statement, “The security and safety department was notified around 7.05am that buses 364 and 324 driven by Bashiru Olawale and Timothy Jegede were involved in a major road traffic accident at Asolo, Ikorodu Road. “During an interview, it was discovered that bus 364 avoided hitting two motorcycles with two passengers on each, which veered into its front on the BRT  lane, and in the process, had a head on collision with bus 324 that was coming inward Ikorodu. “Casualties were recorded in the accident and we ensured that the victims were promptly taken to the Ikorodu General Hospital. “Eighteen victims were taken to the hospital consisting of 13 males and five females. They suffered some minor injuries and majority of them have already been discharged.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   