Samson Folarin Two brothers, Alaba and Abiodun Musa, arrested by the police at the Odo-Noforija station, Epe, for allegedly raping a teenager, have fled. The PUNCH learnt that the division flouted the order of the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, that the duo be transferred to the Gender Unit of the police command headquarters at Ikeja, Lagos. A source said the police, in a desperate bid to cover up, arrested the suspects’ sister, who had been clamped in detention. Alaba and Musa were accused of raping a teenager in Igbooye community, Epe. READ ALSO: Financial bondage takes away judiciary’s independence —CJN She was said to be running an errand for her father when the brothers allegedly accosted and sexually assaulted her. They were alleged to have taken turns to rape her. The men, who are indigenes of the town, were on a visit when the incident happened last Monday. It was reported that the suspects threatened to deal with the victim if she told anyone. However, she was said to have opened up, which led some community youths to seize the suspects and handed them over to men of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps, who handed them over to the police on Tuesday. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, had confirmed the incident to our correspondent. He said, “We received the report that a girl alleged that two siblings slept with her. But one of them denied that he touched her, while the other who claimed to be her boyfriend confessed that he slept with her. But the girl confirmed that it was the two of them. The CP has ordered that the case be transferred to the gender unit for in-depth investigation.” A source said the police at the division did not transfer the case. “They are not in police custody. They have fled. One of them has been sending text messages and asking that the case should be withdrawn from the Ministry of Justice. They were supposed to have been transferred to gender unit since last week, but they have escaped,” the source said. Another source said the suspects’ sister had been protesting her detention having cooperated with the police and assisted in the arrest of the suspects. The Director of the Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, Lola Vivour-Adeniyi, said some residents had also called her attention to the development, adding that she was still making contacts. “I believe that the state CP will do justice in this matter,” she added. A policeman at the division, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the two men were in detention. The DPO also said it was not true that the men escaped. He, however, refused to speak further. The police spokesperson, Elkana, did not take his calls and had yet to respond to a text message on the incident as of press time.