Samson Folarin The Lagos State Blood Transfusion Service has called for voluntary blood donation from residents in the state, saying the state is not measuring up to world standards. The acting Executive Secretary of the agency, Dr Bodurin Osikomaya, spoke in a statement on a blood donation camp in the Palmgrove area of the state. The Rotary Club of Lagos, Palmgrove Estate, had organised the camp in partnership with Indian communities in Lagos at the Indian Temple, Palmgrove. Osikomaya said the World Health Organisation stated that the blood needs of every country should be 100 per cent voluntary by 2020. “The estimate by the World Health Organisation is that blood donation by one to two per cent of the population is the minimum needed to meet a nation’s most basic requirements for blood. This is at least 260,000 units of blood in Lagos State, a widely considered hyper state because of its rapid rate of urbanisation and population of about 26 million with a population growth rate of about 600,000 per annum. “Lagos has less than 10 per cent of voluntary blood donors, while over 90 per cent of blood is sourced from replacement donors, which are those donating because of their relatives. “It is obvious that recruitment of voluntary blood donors is a great challenge in our environment. The need for blood is unpredictable and can be required by anyone irrespective of status, tribe or culture. Death from blood loss or shortage is preventable provided blood is available,” she added. According to the statement, more than 100 donors were recruited at the blood donation camp. The Chairman of the Rotary club, Jayashanker Nalode, and the Chairman of the donation camp, Mahesh Birla, were said to have led the campaign. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 