John Ameh and Maiharaji Altine The National Economic Council on Thursday approved N100bn as budget for the implementation of the National Livestock Transformation Plan (2019 to 2028). The NEC, which was presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, gave the approval during its meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The approval came after the meeting attended by state governors considered a proposal made by the NEC sub-committee on farmers/herders’ crisis. The Chairman of the sub-committee and Governor of Ebonyi State, Mr Dave Umahi, who made the presentation to NEC, spoke to State House correspondents after the meeting. He said, “The plan is not targeted only at cows but a holistic strategy to address animal husbandry. “The plan has six pillars through which it aims to transform the livestock production system in Nigeria along market-oriented value-chain, while ensuring an atmosphere of peace and justice” The governor disclosed that the committee proposed that the Federal Government would bear 80 per cent of the N100bn while participating states would support it with the balance of N20bn and land for the programme. He added, “Council resolved today that there was need to look at the trans-human West African protocols; you cannot allow such movement of cattle without registration and monitoring.” Meanwhile, seven states have been selected by the Federal Government for the commencement of the NLTP. This was revealed by Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State who attended the National economic Council meeting. The governor, who spoke through his Director General in charge of Media and Publicity, Yusuf Idris, said the pilot states were Zamfara, Benue, Taraba, Kaduna, Plateau, Katsina and Gombe. The adoption of the seven states, according to Matawalle, was as a result of the security situation in the states, especially the herders and farmers crisis. “If the plan is well executed, it will contribute towards having lasting solutions on the security situation bedeviling some parts of the country,” Matawalle said. A statement by the VP’s office also confirmed that Osinbajo told the governors that both the NEC and the EAC would work in synergy. “In response to a request for clarification by members of the National Economic Council regarding NEC’s relationship with the newly-announced Economic Advisory Council, Osinbajo said both councils are for the benefit of the President,” the statement released by Osinbajo’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Laolu Akande, read. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     