A woman, Sharon Christiana Onwuchekwa, has chided the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over its arrest of operators of Bluekey Investment Club. The EFCC operatives in the Port Harcourt Zonal Office had arrested Bluekey Investment Club operators a few days ago, and had released their photographs and other information to the public. The 19 staff members of the alleged fake investment company reportedly floated a Ponzi scheme that had defrauded members of the public to the tune of N2,000,000,000 (two billion Naira only), EFCC said. On its verified Facebook wall, the anti-graft agency had written, “The company, Bluekey Investment Club, operating from Sonia Mall, 42 Woji Road, YKC Junction, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, was registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission as a software development and general contracting firm, but allegedly veered into an interest-yielding Ponzi scheme with 10 percent weekly returns on investment over six months. “The scheme also promised total returns of invested capital after six six months.” The 19 employees of the company were rounded up on Friday, August 30, 2019 in Port Harcourt. “Among them are five principal officers — Princess Tsaroigbara (Public Relations Officer); Onwusa Frances Chineze (Accountant); Naabe Gunugu (Payment Confirmation Staff); Tambari Success (Customer Service); and Anorue Maureen (Receptionist);” EFCC claimed, adding, “The chairman of the company, Neenwi Swanu, was at large as at the time of arrest.” EFCC stated that the firm’s PRO, Princess Tsaroigbara, told interrogators that her company was into “digital financial and other technological services,” and that she was not sure if the company was fully registered with the Security and Exchange Commission or the Central Bank of Nigeria. The anti-graft agency however stated that “scores of defrauded customers thronged the premises of the company seeking the intervention of the EFCC.” “Items recovered from the company are computer units and a sum of N459,300 (four hundred and fifty nine thousand, three hundred Naira only),” EFCC said, adding, “The suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.” Commenting on the EFCC post, however, Facebook user, Ms. Sharon Christiana Onwuchekwa, expressed opinion that the EFCC action of arresting the suspects was akin to denying the masses the opportunity to be happy or comfortable. Taking to the EFCC post, Onwuchekwa wrote (as edited for clarity), “I wonder why Nigerians won’t allow her masses to be happy and comfortable for once. “Bluekey Technology has been a source of joy and a comfort zone for we the investors. EFCC, please ask for the view of the investors and judge the company through it. “I’m an investor. I’m so proud of Bluekey Technology changing lives. The company didn’t scam us the investors. The company is not owing us. “Even if, by mistake, your payment is omitted, immediately you call their attention (to it), the company pays you. “Bluekey has employed so many graduates. But wait oh, is it a crime now in Nigeria for citizens to accept employment offer when the government has not created any (job)? “…I plead with the EFCC to please apply wisdom in this matter. Bluekey meant good for investors…” See screenshot of Ms Onwuchekwa’s response to EFCC post: 