John Ameh, Abuja The Federal Government has approved a Business Case for the Bakassi Deep Seaport as a further step to making the project come to reality. The Governor of Cross River State, Prof Ben Anyade, disclosed this to State House correspondents in Abuja after he held a closed-door meeting with the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mr Abba Kyari, at the Presidential Villa. The Federal Government had earlier in 2017 also approved the appointment of a Transaction Advisor for the project. Ayade stated that the additional approval of the Business Case was given by the government on Thursday, last week. He noted that it was an indication that the government had given its full backing to the project. A business case sets out the reasons for embarking on a particular project. “We (have) got the official approval for the Bakassi Deep Seaport business case, which means that the Nigerian government has now officially recognised the Bakassi Deep Seaport and has given us the impetus to go for the full business case”, he said. Ayade also said work was progressing on the Super Highway linking Cross River state to the northern part of the country in order to reap the economic benefits of the Deep Seaport when completed. He explained, “The Bakassi deep seaport is the only port in Nigeria that has an evacuation corridor; so you have a port in Bakassi with a six-lane super highway taking you directly to northern Nigeria. “What Cross River is trying to do is to take the Atlantic Ocean closer to northern Nigeria. The super highway is almost done. If you get to the super highway today, construction work is going on, but because it is a brand new road, you don’t see it from the road. “We are not in the habit of dramatising it but when the dry season comes, I am relocating to the super highway because what we have done is to segment it into 50km each and allow investors who are interested to do their bit. “That is, do it, put your tollgate and recover your money because it is a private road; it is a road that has never existed and it is not a federal road. “It is my initiative and the whole idea is that the northern part of Nigeria, particularly, the North-East and North-West, cannot see the desired prosperity unless they get access to the Deep Seaport.” He added that the deep seaport and the super highway would help states like Yobe and Borno to easily transport their Sesame seeds out of Nigeria, compared to travelling “2,000km to a seaport carrying such materials on road.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 