Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State Police Command, on Wednesday, paraded 10 persons arrested for armed robbery by men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad and declared that five cars and eight motorcycles were recovered from the suspects. The suspects include Oyewumi Oyelakin, Yemi Adebayo, Opeyemi Adeyeye and Munirudeen Olawale, who are said to be members of an armed robbery gang, and Sunday Ogbemudia, the dealer accused of receiving stolen vehicles from them. Two young women, said to be Oyelakin’s girlfriends, were also paraded. One Lasisi Isiaka was paraded for motorcycle theft, while Samuel Johnson and Isiaka Fatai were alleged to be receivers of the stolen motorcycles. Parading the suspects at the command headquarters in Osogbo, the state Police Commissioner, Abiodun Ige, said the four-man robbery gang of Oyelakin, Adebayo, Adeyeye and Olawale specialised in stealing Toyota vehicles, adding that five of such vehicles were recovered from the gang. The leader of the gang, Oyelakin, an Ifetedo-based electrician, narrated to PUNCH Metro how a dealer he met in prison introduced him to armed robbery. The 24-year-old Oyelakin explained that the dealer was a fellow inmate at the Ile-Ife Prison, who was jailed for breaking into a boutique and stealing. According to him, the dealer, during their stay in prison, encouraged him to engage in carjacking anytime he regained his freedom with a promise that he would assist him to use the proceeds to fund an overseas trip. He stated, “I formed the gang in November 2018. We were arrested after we had successfully carried out eight robberies. The first two vehicles I stole, I gave them to the dealer. “He told me while still in prison that whenever I regained my freedom, I should engage in carjacking and promised that whatever I made, he would use it to help me fund an overseas trip. But the man didn’t help me and I stopped giving him cars. “I brought Yemi Adebayo into the gang. Adeyeye was also an inmate of the Ile-Ife Prison. Olawale is a member of the gang. We sell the cars we steal to Sunday Ogbemudia, who is a dealer in Ibadan. “We specialise in stealing Toyota products and we usually sell a Toyota car that costs N2m for N500,000. The two young women, who were also arrested, are my girlfriends. They did not know that I’m an armed robber. I have carried out robbery operations in Ore, Ondo State; and Gbongan and Iwo in Osun State, before I was arrested in Ibadan.” The CP stated that the command would not relent in efforts to rid the state of criminals, adding that all the suspects would be arraigned after investigations had been concluded into their respective cases. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com