Self-described “Buhari Tormentor,” Mr. Reno Omokri, has stated why he felt President Muhammadu Buhari is “not bothered” about the perceived xenophobia attacks being visited on Nigerians resident in South Africa. Taking to his verified Twitter handle on Tuesday, Omokri, who wrote a biography of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, addressed Buhari as “General,” and argued that the President isn’t bothered about killing of Nigerians in South Africa because those mostly affected are Igbo. Omokri had tweeted:  The tweet has since attracted all sorts of reactions from his Twitter followers. See some of the reactions: “Are they (Igbo) Nigerians? Let nnandi kanu go & rescued them now, most you need any assistant from the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria? Zainab is a Nigerian she must have the honor of Mr President to intervened” —Mahmoud Alhassan Zamfara @MahmoudZamfara “This confirms my response yesterday.Let Nigerians in SA find their ways back home as this government will NOT do anything meaningful to protect them.If the security agencies in Nigeria cannot secure Nigerians in Nigeria,Thabang Mokoena’s tweet is inevitable. #pathetic#” —Chika Albert @ChikaAlbert01 “Truth is bitter, but must be told. We all saw the speed with which that lady was rescued in Saudi Arabia and brought back home like a heroin, but every other citizen appear not to matter to the authorities, sad” —Patrick Iyamba @iyamba_pat “If the Nigerians being lynched in SA were Fulani, the Presidency would’ve moved. Remember the Fulani girl in Saudi? We have a President of the Fulani for the Fulani and by the Fulani. When it’s not his kinsmen that are involved what do you expect him to do?” —Maazi @TheRealMaazi “Look like these national institutions have stop functioning. Then what do A.U stand for? I’m yet to see our foreign policies at work. But I think the problem is with our leaders!! U can’t detain any S.A citizen here in this country but our leaders are blind to her own citizens” —Nwokike Desmond @dtituss “A child that the parent doesn’t value can never be valued outside their home. We are not valued by the government of the day” —max.. akwaibom @maxpaddy_eyen “I don’t want to believe he wont act because of that. That will be so stupid of him and I don’t even need to stress on that failure but what are we doing individually on this? Why haven’t we responded in a sophisticated matter at a citizen??” —Flair Wiz ♠️ @Flair_wiz “I feel this should be a collective thing and not a direct hand pointing to the Ibos. Everything citizens of this country deserves to be protected by whatever government in power. American president would spend millions to save one soul. #enoughofkillingNigerians” —Timothy Adelaja @mrtimms123