Feyisayo Popoola Current and savings accounts are important tools for managing your money. You certainly should not be storing money under your mattress or in a freezer. But just how much money should you keep in your current and savings accounts? The right amount for current According to thebalance.com, current accounts are not known for carrying high-interest rates. Even banks offering high-interest current accounts often provide tiered-interest rate structures that need to be navigated to realise the full value. So, your goal with a current account should never be to accrue interest, it is just a better place to store your money. The amount in your current account should be sufficient to cover the monthly bills, provide you with some ready cash for other expenses, and act as a buffer to avoid potential overdrafts. The remaining money should be kept safely in savings, because your current account can quickly become a financial weak spot. Crooks use skimmers on Automated Teller Machines at filling stations or in stores to steal information off debit cards and hack your account. The rise of massive data breaches in the last few years should make you wary of using debit cards. But if you are committed to always swiping a debit card instead of a credit card, you should keep the minimally acceptable amount for your spending habits in a current account. A hacker can make withdrawals from your account as soon as they gain access to your information. It is best to minimise potential damage by keeping the majority of your liquid assets in savings and staying on the defensive by protecting your money. Protect your current account Here are five simple steps to minimise the risk of your current account being hacked: The right amount for savings Gone are the days of high-interest savings accounts. Today, anything north of one per cent is a good deal for consumers. Internet-only banks typically offer the highest interest rates of one per cent or higher, while traditional brick-and-mortar banks stay around 0.01 per cent. On $10,000 in savings, it is the difference between earning $100 and $1. While a $99 difference is significant and savings should be kept in the highest interest rate account possible, you still should not be sitting on much more than six to nine months’ worth of living expenses in savings. This should include money to cover rent or mortgage payments, utilities, phone bills, transportation costs, and average food costs. It is a financial imperative to have easy access to an emergency fund that is kept in a non-risky vehicle. But it is also important not to get into the habit of hoarding money in a savings account because you are too afraid to invest it. Ultimately, your money will start to lose value to inflation if it remains strictly in savings. There is an exception: if you are saving up for a down payment on a home, you may want to keep a bulk of it out of the market to avoid risk. Know how to invest your money Once you have hit your six to nine months emergency savings fund, you can start to dabble with putting your money into investments. You should consult a financial professional and educate yourself to determine the best way to invest your money. You will also need to assess your risk tolerance. Beginners can start investing without stock picking but instead by opening an index fund, mutual fund, or exchange-traded fund through low-fee investment companies. Just be sure any money you invest will not need to be accessed in the case of a financial emergency and that you have enough liquid money to cover life’s unexpected surprises. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 