Patrick Odey, Uyo Operatives of the Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base, Ibaka, in the Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State have again arrested 12 suspected rice smugglers in the state. Southern City News gathered that the suspects were arrested on Saturday, September 21, 2019, during a routine check by officers of the command in two different operations. The Commanding Officer, FOB, Captain Peter Yilme, while handing over the suspects and the seized items to the Nigeria Customs Service on Tuesday, said a total of 1,072 bags of 50kg rice and two wooden boats were seized from them. Yilme reiterated the determination of the FOB under his watch to sanitise the waterways of illegal business, adding that the command would achieve this by liaising with the communities to fish out smugglers before they venture into the sea to carry out their nefarious activities. Represented at the handover ceremony by the Base Operations Officer, FOB, Lieutenant Commander Kabiru Yusuf, the commanding officer said the two operations involved eight suspects with 536 bags of rice, and four suspects caught with 536 bags of rice. Yilme stated, “I hereby hand over two medium-sized wooden boats laden with 536 bags of rice each arrested around the Effiat waterways and the Mbo River to the Nigeria Customs Service. “The wooden boats, along with 12 crew members, were arrested around 3.45am and 10.30pm on Saturday during a routine patrol by navy gunboats.” The Deputy Superintendent of the NCS, Alabi Adedokun, while receiving the 12 suspects and 1,072 bags of rice, commended the navy for the cooperation existing between the two outfits. “On behalf of the Nigeria Customs Service, I, Alabi Adedokun, take over the 12 suspects and 1,072 bags of foreign parboiled rice. On behalf of the Nigeria Customs Service, we thank you very much,” he stated. Speaking with our correspondent, one of the suspects, a pastor from Cameroun, Samuel Gregory, claimed that he was only a passenger in one of the boats. He said, “I came from Cameroun to attend a programme in Nigeria organised by Prophet Omotola Jeremiah in Owerri. “I never knew that the boat I boarded was conveying some illegal goods. I only found out when we landed offshore. This is my first time of coming to Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 