Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Oyo State Police Command, on Thursday, arrested the kidnappers of a 17-year-old boy, Shakiru Weti, and recovered the N1m paid as ransom by the relatives of the victim. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Shina Olukolu, who paraded the suspects, said the kidnappers engaged police personnel in a gun battle while trying to rescue the victim. Olukolu said the family members were encouraged to agree to pay the amount demanded, while detectives laid ambush for the kidnappers. He stated, “On September 17, 2019, around 10am, one Alhaji Abdul Saliu, the Sariki Fulani of Oyo State and resident of Igangan reported at the Ayete Divisional Police Headquarters that a Fulani called Weti reported to him that a gunman kidnapped his son, Shakiru Weti, 17, to an unknown destination. But on September 22, 2019, around 5pm, the abductors called and demanded N1m ransom. “One Yuguda Jayum was arrested with the ransom intact while his accomplice escaped; he confessed to be the leader of the group that carried out the kidnap. Around 3am of the next day, detectives extended investigations to their hideout at Igangan, where their victim was found tied and blindfolded, and was rescued. “The victim was rescued unhurt, while one Kehinde Adeoye, a member of the syndicate, who was guarding the victim to prevent his escape, was arrested. “But, one of the abductors, Taiwo Adeoye, opened fire on the team and escaped. In the course of investigation, Bature Dogo, Kazeem Sule and Maanu Garuba, were also arrested in connection with the case.” The CP added that Taiwo and Sanda, who are also members of the gang, are presently at large. Sulaiman, however, denied the allegation, saying that he did not know anything about the incident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  