Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State Police Command, on Tuesday, said its operatives were closing in on the gunmen, who abducted some passengers at Ajeoku in the Obokun Local Government Area of the state on Sunday. The spokesperson for the command, Folasade Odoro, said though policemen and local hunters had secured the release of the victims, the operatives were still on the trail of the abductors. She said that the police would not relent until the perpetrators were apprehended and made to face justice. She added that some of the kidnappers escaped with bullet wounds and advised residents of the area to assist the police by giving timely information on suspicious movements to security agents. Odoro said, “We are on the trail of the criminals to arrest them and we will not relent until they are arrested. We want to use this incident to send a signal to others. “The operation to rescue the victims was led by the Commissioner of Police and other senior officers and it was professionally handled. With support from other security agencies, the criminals were overpowered and must have been seriously injured during the exchange of gunfire. “We are quite sure that, with the team put in place, we will get them and reveal their identities to the world.” Odoro commended the efforts of the Oodua Peoples Congress, vigilantes and local hunters, saying they did well in assisting the police to rescue the victims. In a related development, traditional rulers in the local government area met in Ibokun on Tuesday to strategise on ways to prevent kidnappings and other violent crimes in the area. At the meeting held at the council secretariat were the Owamiran of Esa Oke, Oba Adeyemi Adediran; Owa Oye of Imesi Ile, Oba Enoch Adeyemi; Alowa of Ilowa, Oba Adebukola Alli; and the Owalare of Ilare, Oba Emmanuel Otebolaku. Also at the meeting, which held behind closed-doors, were top policemen working in the area as well as representatives of the hunters, among others. Meanwhile, the state House of Assembly has set up a five-man committee to look into the issue of insecurity, especially kidnapping in the state. The committee, headed by the Majority Leader of the House, Moruf Olanrewaju, was directed by the Speaker, Mr Timothy Owoeye, to meet with key security stakeholders and kidnapped victims in order to have a deeper understanding of the issues surrounding violent crimes in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 