Success Nwogu, Abuja The National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party has notified staff at the national headquarters of the party,  as well as those of the Peoples’ Democratic Institute, of its plan to downsize the workforce. Our correspondent gathered on Tuesday that the  NWC had already set up a committee on the matter but had yet to receive and discuss the report of the committee. It was further learnt that the downsizing of the workers was the main agenda of a recent meeting between the staff of PDP and PDI and an official of PDP NWC, who requested not to be named. It was also gathered that the party plans to pay the staff that would be affected their severance allowances as contained in the party’s Establishment Manual signed by the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus. READ ALSO: Nigerians’ evacuation delayed as South Africa withholds landing permit from Air Peace According to the highlights of the meeting signed by the Chairman of the PDP/PDI Staff Welfare Committee, Mr. Innocent  Nwankwo, the monthly wage bill of the establishment staff (PDP/PDI) amounted to about N15m while their total staff strength is 96. It was learnt that the plan to downsize the workers was necessitated by the need to rightsize the workforce, reduce redundant staff members and the over-bloated wage bill. Nwankwo said that the rightsizing was not necessarily because the party’s fortune was dwindling. He added that the party was still strong financially as it had 16 State Governors, 44 senators, 131 House of Representatives members and about 390 members of States’ Houses of  Assembly. Another source informed our correspondent that the party had a few years ago, reduced the salaries of the workers.  He, however, said the party did not owe workers any salary arrears. He also said some of the staff were being under-utilised, adding that if they were paid their severance package and other entitlements, they could become more productive and fulfilled in their future endeavours. The statement signed by Nwankwo said, “That NWC notified staff of their intention to downsize staff. That the report of the Committee set up to that effect has not been received and discussed by NWC. “That at the point of implementation of the report when submitted, the staff affected will be paid their severance allowances as contained in the party’s Establishment Manual duly signed by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. “On the monthly wage bill of Establishment Staff (PDP/PDI) put together, the total amount is about N15m, contrary to the earlier reported N65m. That the total staff strength of both PDP and PDI is 96 in number, contrary to the earlier reported figure of 120 in number.” He added, “That PDI which is the research arm of the party has been on the payroll of the party at inception till date contrary to the earlier report that it was merged thereby over-blotting the staff strength of the party since 2016. “That the fortunes of the party has not nosedived as reported  because as at today, the party can the party boast of 16 governors, 44 senators, 131 House of Representatives and 390 State Assembly members.” The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said he would not want to discuss whether the party wanted to downsize its workforce or not.