Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday said there were saboteurs and fifth columnists working against the plan of the Federal Government to develop the country. The Vice President made the claim at St Luke’s Anglican Church, Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti State during the burial of Mrs Moroluke Fakoyede, mother of the Secretary to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ola Olukoyede. “This country requires everybody to be on board to work hard. It is not true that President (Muhammadu) Buhari doesn’t know how to govern, it is not because we have not done enough, there are saboteurs and many fifth columnists working against us, but we are going to triumph,” Osinbajo said. He also dismissed insinuations that the performance of government officials had been hampered by selfishness. He said, “I became frightened when the man of God said only those of us in power are enjoying. This is not true. We have done our best for Nigerians. The concern of President Buhari, the All Progressives Congress and those of us in the President’s government is for Nigeria to move forward and we shall achieve this. “All the good social investment programmes like TraderMoni, N-Power and others will soon start to manifest. We are all going to benefit from Buhari’s administration.” The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, represented by the lawmaker representing  Ekiti-North Federal Constituency II, Ibrahim Olanrewaju, said generations yet unborn would remember Mrs Fakoyede for being caring, painstaking and honest. The cleric in charge of the Church, Rev Mathew Ajao, had in his sermon, expressed disappointment at the way some leaders piloted the nation’s affairs. He said, “Apart from the increasing scourge of poverty, Nigerians are not enjoying all the basic amenities that can improve their well-being. “Those in positions of authorities have access to everything but not the people. Nigerians are suffering. We are not enjoying anything. No light, no good road, no improved health facilities and others. “Government must empower the poor, not the one where you give generators to people without anything they will use them to power. Some are very rich, they have everything but not blessed by heaven,” the cleric said. READ ALSO: As governors celebrate 100 days of bad roads Ajao lauded the deceased for giving her children education and showing them the way of the Lord, saying this was responsible for her glorious end. Among dignitaries at the service were the Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, the APC former National Legal Adviser, Muiz Banire (SAN); and the Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State Command, Mr Asuquo Amba. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 