Sola Shittu and Ted Odogwu The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Benin Zonal Office, on Monday announced the arrest of 113  internet    fraudsters in Edo, Delta and Ondo states. One of the  suspects arrested in Edo, a female,   is said to be  on  the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  most wanted  list. The  EFCC made  the arrests in collaboration with the FBI. Benin Zonal Head of  the EFCC, Muhtar Bello, told reporters  in Benin that the female suspect, whose identity he didn’t reveal,   was  involved in obtaining/stealing people’s identification information and  forwarding it to her collaborators in the United States. Bello said, “Her American  collaborators use  the information  to file for fraudulent tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service. She receives her cut through Bitcoin. About 185 Bitcoin, which by current market value is N656,371,490, has been traced to her.” According to him, the arrests  are aimed at riding  society of economic and financial crimes, especially internet fraud and cyber crime. He said the zonal office  arrested the suspects after  raiding their  hideouts  in the three states  and recovered over 38 exotic cars, laptops, handsets   and other items from them. Bello said two siblings  involved  in Business Email Compromise were among those arrested. The EFCC chief said, “Also, the commission has secured 53 convictions in the period under review.” Meanwhile, the  Kano Zonal Office of the EFCC  on Monday confirmed  it had recovered over N798m from suspects over  financial-related offences between January and August. The Kano Zonal Head of the commission, Akaninyene Ezima, said over 280 suspects had been arrested this year for various financial crimes. He said, ‘’We have 51 cases   at different stages of completion before the courts. ‘’On money laundering, we have been able to recover N550m. ‘’Over 280 suspects have been arrested for committing various offences this year. ‘’Also, we recovered  $690,400 from three passengers at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, who were about to  travel out of the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 