Simon Utebor The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Chief Gani Adams, has convened a meeting of ethnic vigilance groups in the South-West to form a coalition over the partnership between the Nigeria Police Force and the O’Odua People’s Congress. During the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the OPC recently in Lagos State, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, indicated the readiness of the police to partner the OPC as part of the measures to tackle insecurity in the South-West. Sequel to the proclamation by the police boss, Adams convened a meeting of first South-West Security Stakeholders’ Group in Lagos during the week. The ethnic security groups in attendance at the forum were the OPC; Vigilante Group of Nigeria, South-West; Yoruba Youth Council; Agbekoyas and the South-West Hunters Association. He reiterated his belief that the synergy between the police and the OPC would go a long way in tackling insecurity in the region. He urged criminals who hitherto used to hide under the security agencies to commit crimes to desist from such nefarious activities in their own interest, saying the coalition of South-West vigilance groups would fish them out wherever the hid. He said he convened the SWSSG to enable the Yoruba ethnic nationality to form a coalition of all ethnic vigilance groups. He also said the coalition would work harmoniously with South-West governors in order to achieve effective security of the region against banditry, kidnapping, terrorism and other criminal activities. Adams said, “The South-West Security Stakeholders Group is about bringing all the security groups in Yoruba land together to be a formal platform. “We have agreed to partner the police and all law enforcement agencies. We have also agreed with the South-West governors in their own security arrangements too so that there can be effective security in Yoruba land “Our determination is to have a coalition. The essence of the coalition is to have a proper coordination with the police. “We have written the police to appraise the development and decisions taken at the summit in order to have a direct link with us.” “It is our belief that with the coalition, those with selfish interests will not disorganise the kind gesture of the Nigeria police and governors of the South-West.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 