Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. Africa is a rather complex continent and this stems from many factors. How can one relate to the fact that a continent is so blessed, yet so terribly poor? I write this piece with a very heavy heart considering the fact that innocent Africans are being killed and maimed by fellow Africans for reasons one cannot justify. How can it be explained in today’s world that people are being burned alive because of one suspicion or the other? It is indeed hurtful and I call on the South African authorities to nip this in the bud because no one has the monopoly of violence. That said, it all comes back to one fact – majority of Africans are poor and it is high time leaders from various African countries sat down to address the issue of poverty. The African continent, with a massive population of over one billion people has more than 500 million of this number living below the global poverty line of $1.25 a day. The first Sustainable Development Goal (SDG 1) talks about eradicating extreme poverty by 2030. However, available data does not show that Africa is winning the war against poverty. The burning question that should be on the mind of any concerned Nigerian is how do we change the poverty narrative for Nigeria? In my case, I simply ask myself, what are some of the practical ways that we can apply technology towards getting more people out of poverty? This is because the high levels of poverty simply mean we are seating on multiple kegs of gun powder and we must collectively do the needful or be ready to face the consequences. A few weeks ago, I attended an event organised by Softcom, in partnership with the National Social Investment Office, with the theme, ‘Combating Poverty: Role of Technology in driving social change in Africa’, the key note speaker at the event was the Senior Special Assistant, to the President on Job Creation and Youth Employment, Afolabi Imoukhuede, who I know is passionate about creating more opportunities for young people, which is evident going by the results with the N-power programme so far. In his keynote, he highlighted five key areas that he believes technology can help transform the country, namely; digital literacy, education, agriculture, banking and identity. This piece simply expands the thoughts shared by this consummate professional with the aim of once again stressing the need for Nigeria to step up its game and truly lead Africa. Digital literacy The availability of the Internet, social media and acquisition of digital skills that empower digital literacy fortunately is not too expensive. Today, many youths are involved in producing, writing, creating images and designs made possible by technology. Youths are very much inclined to technology, hence, they form the larger part of the population that has embraced digital literacy. In 2014, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunities Act defined digital literacy skills as a workforce preparation activity. Digital literacy is required for employment to some blue collar jobs now that technology is cheaper and available. With more unskilled population on the continent, digital literacy skill acquisition should be a deliberate plan, enforced by the government at secondary school levels. Education Years back, schools used to depend on several desktop computers to empower their students for ICT. Today, the entire classroom has been transformed into a virtual class, where students can learn at their convenience. It is even no news that some people have actually gone through an institution without attending the four walls of a classroom! By leveraging the power of technology, many have become skilled at what they do by simply watching videos and reading electronic materials. The skills acquired have been translated into money making ventures, hence, changing the narrative from poverty to wealth. However, broadband penetration is still a challenge and this is due largely to inadequate infrastructure and investments particularly in the rural areas. The provision of facilities, to enable e-learning and promote ICT, will, surely, go a long way, in alleviating poverty, on the continent. Agriculture The agricultural sector needs technology more than ever before today and this is referring to almost through all its value chain. As an example, Farmcrowdy, an agric-tech start-up, is working hard to revolutionise the agricultural sector across the country by empowering small holder farmers, in order to increase food production and security. Using technology, this digital agriculture platform, have been improving seeds and farm inputs, training framers on modern farming techniques, as well as, providing market, for the sale of their farm produce. This in return has empowered rural farmers to cultivate more acres of farmland and by extension leads to increased food production and security in Africa. Indeed, technology has caused an improvement in the agricultural value chain in the country. With more infrastructure and favourable policies by the government, platforms like Farmcrowdy and other agriculture start-ups would leverage technology to empower rural farmers for food production and sustainability that alleviates poverty. Banking Banks no longer enjoy the monopoly of financial transactions, as fintechs are now giving them a run for their money. Platforms such as Remita in Nigeria or M-pesa in Kenya, are disrupting the sector by using technology to make it easier,for bank clients to outsource cash handling, deposits and withdrawal transactions. The excitement over mobile money transfer is fuelled by its overall impact on the financial inclusion challenge, driven by the possibility of the providers, offering savings, credit, insurance, and other financial products to the poor at low costs. If the unbanked masses, usually, the poor could be rewarded by these services, then,they opt to stay with a service that uses technology and at the same time cushion the ravaging effect of poverty on them. Identity A large population on the continent is without identity, meaning that they would lose out on so many benefits in the health, education and social protection services. With the use of technology, unknown identities can be captured at a glance. We need to place organisation such as NIMC on auto-drive but most importantly converge all the multiple data being collected by various Ministries Departments and Agencies into one. This is a topic I have written on several times and this has to happen sooner or later. Nigeria is now regarded as the poverty capital of the world and all hands must be on deck to change the narrative. My advice to the government is to take technology seriously because it can help promote transparency, increase access to education, curb corruption, improve accountability and generally push us to become a much saner society where leaders focus on the common good. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 