Environmentalists and engineers have called for better strategies and collaboration in the management of flooding in the country. The Director-General, Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, Dr Moses Beckley said the lack of inter-disciplinary approach and collaboration made it difficult to achieve effective flood mitigation in Nigeria. Beckley, at a symposium organised by the Nigerian Association for Engineering Geology and the Environment, Lagos Chapter, said that flooding was a multi-disciplinary global issue that required government, stakeholders and multi-professional collaboration to proffer lasting solutions. Speaking on the theme, ‘Flood control and mitigation: Critical appraisal of a typical lagoon city’, he said the severe impact of floods, whether it happened as a result of climate change or some other factors, was most likely to be in the urban areas where people, resources and infrastructure were concentrated. He said this would affect not only the resident population but also industries, commercial ventures, livelihoods and ultimately, the potential for investment. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Beckley said Lagos as a typical lagoon city is constantly affected by floods, particularly during the rainy season, adding that positive mitigation measures should be readily available. He said, “Scientists predict that increase in average temperature and frequency of storm and flood events may induce even greater impact on cities, especially those located proximal to the lagoon, river banks, in river catchment or along the sea coast. “Although Lagos is naturally flooded during the wet season, the flooding is worsened by human activity and the subsidence induced by physical development. For many of us, flooding is no longer an emergency; it becomes a common disaster that must be taken account of in our development planning.” He explained that flooding was mostly the negative aspect of unplanned development and had led to increased exposure of people to hazards and vulnerability. “The concept of the safer city is encouraging for returns on long-term investments, business continuity and public safety,” Beckley added. The National President of NAEGE, Prof. Tamunoene Abam, called for development of a policy framework and strict enforcement laws and regulations on flooding. Abam, who was represented by the National Vice-President of NAEGE, Mr Kayode Adeolu, said a rapidly expanding city like Lagos with its high-density presented a unique environment for attempting to develop flood-risk policies. He added, “Government needs, therefore, to develop a policy on drainage and infrastructure improvement. Therefore, a comprehensive master plan for flood loss, prevention and mitigation is recommended for each city. The city plan should guide and control the development activities to flood risk, while spatial hazard assessments should be the basis of the planning.” The Chairman of Lagos Chapter NAEGE, Mr Frank Ikuewan, said that there was a need for adequate data documentation and planning in the management of flood risks. He said data was vital in the management of flooding, adding that it had been the major element lacking in flood management process in Nigeria so far. According to him, for one to effectively plan and mitigate flooding, the data on the land level, land height and hazard map, among others, must be known to serve as a guide. 