John Ameh and Godwin Isenyo President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the detention and dehumanisation of about 300 boys and men in a building at Rigasa, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The police had raided the building, rescued about 300 victims and arrested seven teachers of the Islamic centre, including its proprietor, Mallam Ismaila Abubakar, who insisted he did nothing wrong than teach the detainees Islam. But some of the victims as young as five years old said they had been held captive for years. They said they were tortured, sexually abused and starved. Many of them, with visible injuries, had metal chains around their ankles. Reacting to the episode, President Buhari commended the police for discovering what he termed a “horrific hub”, saying the so-called ‘reform institution’ where the detainees were kept was unedifying. He said free and compulsory education remained a right for all children. Buhari’s reaction to the incident was conveyed in a statement on Saturday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu. The Presidency stated, “We are glad that the Muslim authorities have dismissed the notion of the embarrassing and horrifying spectacle as an Islamic school. “The place has indeed been described as a house of torture and a place of human slavery. “The President holds the view that children will be safeguarded from roaming the streets and protected from all evil influences that assail idle hands and minds when they are sent to school. “When he inaugurated the National Economic Council for the year 2019/2023 at the Presidential Villa, in Abuja, President Buhari warned that keeping children away from school was a criminal offence. “He also stressed the need to take seriously and enforce the statutory provisions on free and compulsory basic education, citing Section 18(3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended, which he said placed on all of us (public leaders and political office holders) an obligation to eradicate illiteracy and provide free and compulsory education. “He added that Section 2 of the Compulsory Free Universal Basic Education Act provides that every government in Nigeria shall provide free, compulsory and universal basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age. “It is indeed a crime, he stressed, for any parent to keep their pupil child out of school for this period. “While the government at the centre has introduced a number of programmes, including the school feeding programme, which is now in 32 states in the country, with 9.8 million children beneficiaries to encourage school enrolment and enhance the health and learning capabilities of pupils, state and local governments are obliged under the law to ensure that every child of school age goes to school throughout the crucial nine years of basic education. “To stop unwanted cultural practices that amount to the abuse of children, our religious and traditional authorities must work with the federal, state and local governments to expose and stop all types of abuse that are widely known but ignored for many years by our communities.” Meanwhile, the police  have handed the  300 children they  rescued from an  Islamic school in  Rigasa in Igabi Local Government Area of  Kaduna State on Thursday  over to the state government. The boys  were allegedly chained, tortured, sexually assaulted and starved  at the school. Some parents of  the   rescued children on Friday  protested against  the    raid on the centre. They asked the police to release their children, insisting the allegation by the force that the children were being sexually abused  was false. Spokesman for the police in the state, DSP Yakubu Sabo,  said   on Saturday the state  government would in turn hand over the children to their parents. He said, “Yes, we have handed over the children to the state for onward reunion with their parents. The children are victims, not offenders.” “They were handed over to the state government on Friday. On the issue of whether parents gave their consent,  the school will always want to look for support from the families that are loyal  to them so that they could get themselves off the hook. “Whether or not the parents were the ones  who handed their children to them or not, there is a limitation to  what can be done to  a  human being. “According to law, even if  it is the father that subjected his child to inhuman treatment, there is a level where he will be held liable for his action. “Nobody is questioning  whether the parents took their children there or not. What we are saying is that  the inhuman treatment meted out to these children was a violation of the constitution.” The force had  claimed  that many of the children were  from Burkina Faso, Mali and other African countries. Sabo said the seven  people arrested during the raid were being investigated. He  claimed  the centre  had no licence to operate. He said,  “As far as we know, they have no documents to show that they  have a  licence. “Even If you have a licence to  run  correctional programmes, that in itself does not give you  the right to run educational programmes.” The state Commissioner of Police, Ali Janga, on Thursday lamented the dehumanisation of  the children. He said, “The man operating this home claimed that parents brought their children here for rehabilitation. But from the look of things, this is not a rehabilitation centre. No reasonable parent will bring their children to this place.” According to the  proprietor of the centre, all they do at the school is to teach the Holy Qur’an. Meanwhile, Sabo  said they would charge the suspects  after concluding their investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 