Gibson Achonu, Owerri Residents of Imo State are now living in fear following the murder of a prominent indigene of the state, Bruno Uchechukwu, by gunmen. The incident occurred on Sunday at the popular Cherubim junction in Owerri. Bruno, who died at a nearby hospital, was the Personal Assistant to the Chairman of the State Moveable Assets Recovery Committee, Jasper Ndubuaku. The 32-year-old Bruno, who hailed from Atta in the Ikeduru Local Government Area of the state, was resident at No. 32 Elekwenwa Street, Owerri, and was survived by an aged mother. PUNCH Metro gathered that the incident occurred a few weeks after Ndubuaku was assaulted by some youths alleged to be loyal to the immediate past administration in the state. Reacting to the incident, Ndubuaku, a two-time member of the Imo state House of Assembly representing the Isiala Mbano Constituency, expressed shock at the incident, saying that the killing was either targeted at him or done to frighten him to abandon his job. The former lawmaker fingered the opposition for being behind the killing, saying, “Ever since the administration of Emeka Ihedioha came to power, the opposition has wreaked a series of havocs on the state.” He stated that he would not be deterred in his commitment to continue with his assignment for the state despite the attempts to stop him and his men. Ndubuaku said, “The young man (Bruno) was my personal assistant. I think his killing was done by some people, who are trying to hit me or frighten me out of this job, and I don’t find it funny. I don’t know who is behind it, but definitely, it will not be far from the opposition. “They have done their worst but nothing will stop me. Even if they hit me, as I am dying, my spirit will keep fighting.” The state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, while reacting to the incident, said the command had commenced investigation into the incident with a view to arresting those behind the killing. Ladodo, who spoke through the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Orlando Ikokwu, said only a thorough investigation would reveal if the killing was politically motivated or not. “Currently, we are keeping our fingers crossed and working on the leads we have so far,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 