John Ameh and Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government has tied the fate of current investors in the power sector, particularly the distribution companies, to the ‘final performance review’, a clause in the power sector reform agreement to be invoked in December 2019, SUNDAY PUNCH has learnt. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, whose office oversees the privatisation programme of the Federal Government, had admitted in Abeokuta, Ogun State, recently that the government was not satisfied with the electricity delivered to Nigerians, almost six years into the privatisation. He had also disclosed that the government would open up the market to admit new investors with the capacity and financial clout to deliver electricity to Nigerians. “A substantial change of strategy is being pursued,” Osinbajo had stated. Findings by Saturday PUNCH indicated that the government was “conscious of following due process” by abiding by all the clauses of the power sector reform agreement. One Presidency source, speaking on the issue, said, “There is a provision for what is called final performance review or assessment. “That has to be done because it is in the document. The government has to give the Discos the opportunity to exhaust the opening by carrying out the review. “It is the review that will provide a complete picture of what everyone seems to know already; that the power sector has so far not met the expectations of Nigerians. “Some of the Discos too have faced challenges that you may not entirely blame on them. That’s part of what the review will bring to light.” Asked if the government was ready to cough out the $2.4bn (about N736bn) said to be required to settle the liabilities of the current investors to be able to repossess about 10 Discos, the source replied that “a lot of options” were on the table pending the final decision on the issue by the government. The source added, “I think things will unfold in phases. The first is what will happen after the performance review. If it becomes clear the current owners can’t continue, the government will find a way to accommodate the payments that may come as outstanding against it. “But, it hasn’t got to that stage. Recall that when the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria was unbundled prior to the emergence of the Dicos and Gencos, the government also bore liabilities running into billions of naira. What is important is for the government first to take its final decision.” While in Abeokuta to inaugurate the 2x60MVA, 132/33kV substation built by Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited, Osinbajo had spoken on the frustration of the government over the slow pace of the power sector in delivering services to Nigerians. In a related development, it has been learnt that the Ministry of Finance had been asked to look into requests brought before it by stakeholders in the power sector, calling for the recapitalisation of electricity distribution companies. According to senior officials at the Abuja headquarters of the Ministry of Power and the Transmission Company of Nigeria, the finance ministry has to be involved in the matter because it has become vital for the Discos to inject more funds into the development of their respective networks. Although officials at the power ministry, the TCN and the Nigerian Electronic Regulatory Commission declined to speak on the plans to repossess the firms, they noted that a lot was being done to revamp the sector. “The issue about recapitalisation of the Discos has been tabled before the Federal Ministry of Finance and this again is another reason why the President approved N600bn for the sector,” an official at the ministry, who pleaded not to be named, stated. The Managing Director, TCN, Usman Mohammed, during an interview in Abuja, also confirmed that the finance ministry was looking into the request for the recapitalisation of Discos. “We have presented our position to government on the issue of recapitalisation of Discos and the Ministry of Finance has been asked to look into it. This is a fact. The good news is that the government at the highest level is agreeing with us on the issue of recapitalisation,” he stated. Mohammed insisted that power distributors must recapitalise, either by getting more investors to invest in them, or by sourcing for funds from multilateral donors. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 