Deji Lambo Cultists have killed one Yekini Wahab during an attack on residents of Odokekere, Ogijo in the Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State. The cultists were said to have also invaded the Oniburuku area of Odokekere, where they killed a herbalist, identified simply as Ifa. It was gathered that the cultists fired into the air to create confusion before killing their targets, while also robbing residents. A resident, Chike Nnamdi, told our correspondent that Yekini’s brother, Haruna, was the target, adding that he was killed because his brother was not in the house on Thursday, September 12, when they came. The 58-year-old said, “The cultists came to the area around 10pm and went into Iya Musa’s house, took her last born, Yekini, and slit his throat. According to what we gathered, it was Yekini’s brother they were looking for. “The major problem we have in Odekekere is that members of the Aiye and Eiye confraternities have been terrorising the community as a result of supremacy clashes.” Another resident, Babatunde Omisore, urged the government to build a police post in Odokekere. He said a police post would check killings by suspected cultists. The 49-year-old said, “Everywhere was peaceful when we came to Odokekere but at a point, some cultists started living in the community and whenever they have a clash, it creates tension because it is always bloody.” Yekini’s uncle, Lukmon Wahab, however, refuted the claim that cultists killed him in place of their target, Haruna, explaining that the boy was killed because he prevented the cultists from stealing his mother’s bag. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said only one person was killed. READ ALSO: CAN faults eviction order on 100-year-old Kaduna church He said, “Only one person was killed, the cultists met the person in front of his mother’s house and killed him. They cut off his hand after they were done. It is like the person that was killed was a member of a rival cult group because the attack looked like a reprisal attack. “The cultists came from Odogunyan – a boundary between Ogun and Lagos states, to launch the attack. The anti-cultist section in Lagos State has been contacted and they are working hand in hand with our men to ensure that the culprits are brought to book.” Wahab said, “If people are saying the cultists were looking for someone when they came, then, why did they kill that man, Ifa, after killing Yekini. We hardly have electricity and their operations are mostly in the dark. We want the government to come to our rescue by providing security to keep us safe.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 