Olaleye Aluko The Nigerian Army has said that there will be massive movement and firing of artillery gunshots in some parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, as part of activities lined up for the October 1 Independence Day celebration while urging the residents not to panic. The Guards Brigade, Nigerian Army, stated this on Saturday while noting that people living in Asokoro, Maitama and environs were enjoined particularly not to be disturbed by the heavy artillery gunshots. In a release, the Guard Brigade’s Spokesman and Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Captain Haruna Tagwai, said Nigeria’s 59th Independence Day Anniversary Parade was scheduled for October 1 at the Fore Court of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said, “As part of the ceremonial activities for the anniversary, there will also be the traditional firing of Artillery Gun salute during the occasion. “Members of the public, especially those living within Asokoro, Maitama and its environs, are hereby alerted and urged not to panic on hearing the sound of firing of weapons during the aforementioned period.” Meanwhile, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has urged the passing-out cadets of the Nigerian Defence Academy in Kaduna State to always put national interest first and to be dispassionate in carrying out their professional responsibilities. The air chief in Kaduna State stated this on Saturday at the NDA Regimental dinner ahead of the October 5 Passing-Out. “The nation must always come first on your scale of priorities and you must also note that the whole nation is your constituency and as such when deployed, you must eschew sentiments and carry out your duties without fear or favour,” Abubakar said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  