’Femi Asu The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria has said its forthcoming conference will focus on Nigeria’s growth and sustainable development. ICAN said in a statement that eminent personalities would converge on Abuja next week for its 47th Annual Accountants’ Conference, with the theme ‘Building Nigeria for Sustainable Growth and Development’. It said the theme was specifically chosen to evolve ways to strengthen institutional framework to support government’s anti-corruption drive and to chart a new strategy to overcome security and infrastructural challenges in the country. The institute said the lead paper, titled ‘Strengthening Institutional Framework to Support Anti-Corruption Drive’, would be delivered by the Kenyan anti-corruption czar, Prof. Patrick Lumumba, who would provide an insight into some of the key global trends and reforms aimed at enhancing transparency and accountability in state and economic institutions. According to the statement, the second paper, ‘Disruptive Innovations: Challenges and Opportunities in the Accounting Profession’, hopes to dissect innovative technologies such as robotics, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, machine learning, block chain, data analytics, as the greatest disruptor of the accounting profession in this age. ICAN noted that the Federal Inland Revenue Service recently issued letters of substitution to commercial banks in Nigeria, appointing them as tax-collecting agents for certain listed customers maintaining accounts with such banks. It said the third paper, ‘The FIRS Power of Substitution: Critical Review and Matters Arising’, would review the legality or otherwise of the substitution powers of the FIRS to appoint banks as collecting agents and whether the FIRS has the power to instruct banks to freeze the account of tax defaulters. The institute said a paper would also be presented on public accountability as a driver of transparent leadership and governance. It said the paper would discuss issues bordering on accountability and proffer suggestions for improved public accountability to stimulate transparent leadership and governance in the country. According to the statement, the conference will offer a platform for experts and professionals to rub minds on how to make accountability the watchword in governance and financial transactions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com