Nigerian government has intensified the capturing of Nigerians all over the world into its identity database. IFE OGUNFUWA examines the benefits of the digital identity Experts have highlighted the importance of a digital identity for Nigerians and nations globally. They said the benefit that could be derived from a unique digital identity ranges from access to financial services anywhere in the world to health, security and social services, among others. According to them, a central identity will make economic planning and provision of social services to citizens easy for the government. The Senior Special Adviser to the President on Job Creation, Afolabi Imoukhuede, said that most Africans did not have a formal identity, which had limited their chances of accessing services provided by the government. He noted that the country’s identity system was instrumental to the success of the N-Power initiative and social services of the government. According to him, many people have been denied access to health, education, social protection and many basic amenities due to the absence of a trusted identity system. He called on African governments to create an inclusive identity system that would offer benefits to citizens, especially the vulnerable. “No ID means, no access to health, education, social protection and other government services. Where there is no identity, you cannot plan count and when you can’t count, you can’t plan,” Imoukhuede added. Speaking on the role of the National Identification Management Commission in the creation of a unique identity for all Nigerians, the Director-General of the commission, Aliyu Aziz, said that the ecosystem approach which the agency had adopted would ensure that the identity system in the country was trusted and sustainable. According to him, Nigeria’s National Identity Number is similar to the social security number used by the citizens of the United States to access government services. He said, “The target is to create a life-long identification for all. In the US, if you have a child and if the child is given a birth certificate by the hospital, the information will be sent electronically to the social security office, which is similar to what NIMC does and a social security number will be assigned to the child. From that time, if the child needs a passport, the birth certificate and social security number is all we need.” He explained that the priority of the government was to create a unique identity number in line with global best practices and not an identity card. Aziz stated that the identity number had been made unique with biometric data, adding that with rising population, the commission might consider collecting iris recognition to ensure accuracy. He said, “We are living in a digital era and that is why the key characteristics for an ID number is that it must be digital. What makes the person unique is the biometrics because we need accuracy. “We collected 83 fields by asking for other information that we don’t really need on your identification but we agreed to minimise it to 10 fields. We work in an ecosystem so that any other agencies that have captured your information can send to NIMC.  As our population is growing, we will introduce iris for accuracy. “It (NIN) has to have civil registration linkages with birth and death so that we can have the input and output and control those variables otherwise, we will have dead people in the database. It has to be technology-neutral. We have had many projects before that used turnkey and we were locked out. Now, whatever we do, we make sure it is technology-neutral, trustworthy and built with legal, technical and security software to ensure data protection and privacy.” According to him, collaboration of the agency with other data collecting agencies will ensure that the data is not duplicated. Meanwhile, a new report from Juniper Research found that the number of people using government-issued digital identity credentials will grow by over 150 per cent from an expected 1.7 billion in 2019 to over five billion in 2024. The study identified emerging continents such as Africa and Asia as some of the biggest markets because countries in the regions had started upgrading analogue identities to benefit from the efficiencies digital registration and management bring. The new research entitled “Digital Identity: Technology Evolution, Regulatory Analysis and Forecasts 2019-2024,” showed that Nigeria and other countries would supply digital identity to over 420 million people on the continent on both cards and apps by 2022. It predicted that 12 million people in Malawi would have digital identities in 2022 as most nations unencumbered by legacy systems had started following Estonia’s lead of rapid digital identity development. The report stated, “Governments typically provided such cards, which many people in more developed countries have previously rejected.” Juniper Research estimated that markets across Europe and North America would be led by the financial services sector and digital driving licences, rather than formal government identification. The analysts said mobile single signup would be a large part of several digital identity platforms, with over one billion users by 2023; generating over $5bn in revenues that year. “We expect strong growth in blockchain-based digital identity solutions over the next five years,” Research Author, James Moar said. “However, with simpler apps being quick to develop and almost indistinguishable from a user perspective, companies and operators will need to be the ones to drive the use of self-sovereign identity forward.” According to the study, blockchain and the self-sovereign identity movement are part of this future, but will be a small piece of the puzzle, despite average yearly growth of 35 per cent. It added that less than 10 per cent of dedicated identity apps were expected to be blockchain-based by 2023. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 