Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta Scores  of contractors on Tuesday  thronged   the secretariat of the Ogun State Universal Basic Education Board  in Abeokuta following  reports of the release  of  N10.3bn counterpart fund  by the Federal Government  to   state  for the   rehabilitation of  236 public schools. Our correspondent learnt that the  contractors had submitted their proposals for various  projects. Speaking at the opening  of bids for the projects  on   SUBEB premises, the acting  chairman of the board, Wasiu Kuye,  said Governor  Dapo Abiodun had directed that  the 236 wards in  the state must benefit from the Universal Basic Education Commission’s intervention. He said it became necessary  for the  state government  to address the  infrastructural needs  in the  education sector following its sorry state. Kuye  commended the governor for facilitating the release of N10,279,958,992.20 as counterpart fund  for the school projects. The chairman,  who is also the Secretary of the board,   said  the projects would focus on pre-primary, primary and junior secondary schools in  the state. He  said the state government  would  rehabilitate  445 blocks of   1,352 classrooms in 445 public primary schools in 236 wards. The  Zonal Director of UBEC, Roseline Medubi, warned the contractors against  abandoning the projects half-done. Oro festival divides Oyo town, group seeks intervention Ademola Babalola, Ibadan A socio-political interest group, Ebedi Frontliners, Iseyin has appealed to   Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde  to intervene in  the alleged   religious crisis brewing  in Iseyin town. The group said this in their  letter to the governor  on Monday, following an alleged attempt by an Islamic group in the town to prevent them from celebrating Oro festival. They referred to a suit filed by the sect in which the  Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Ganiy Adekunle, the traditional council of Iseyin Local Government  Area and the leader of Oro sect in Iseyin are the  respondents. In the suit, the Islamic group  is  seeking an injunction to stop the celebration of  the  festival  fixed  for  September 22. The Publicity Director of the group, Segun Fasasi,  said the move was aimed at creating religious  crisis in the community. The group  urged the governor to look into the case and order the  security agencies to be  on the alert to avert a breakdown of law and order by those they described as intolerant of other people’s religion. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 