Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja In a bid to boost security at Nigerian airports, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria has graduated and deployed 727 Aviation Security and fire fighting officers in airports. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said the Federal Government would continue to improve on safety and security at the nation’s airports through training and capacity development of staff in line with the provisions of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. He said this at the passing out parade of the 727 Aviation Security and Aerodrome Rescue and Fire Fighting Services personnel held in Kaduna State. Sirika the graduates to put service before everything else and advised them to set priorities that would determine the quality of their stewardship. He was quoted in a statement issued by FAAN as saying, “In accepting to be trained as AVSEC and ARFFS cadets, you must realise that it is a privilege for you to serve your country at this level as the aviation industry is one place where adherence and commitment to rules and standards are applied strictly to the latter.” The Managing Director, FAAN, Rabiu Yadudu, told the graduates that as security and firemen in Nigerian airports, their commitment to honour, respect and devotion to duty must be second to none. He said, “There is no doubt that the period you have spent during your training has considerably prepared you both in learning and character to become ambassadors of not only your service and authority, but also that of the country, in the eye of all airport users, both local and foreign.” The FAAN boss stated that the authority would continue to invest in human resources and charged the graduates to be committed, dedicated and approach duties assigned them with high sense of responsibility. .Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  