Afeez Hanafi There was panic at the Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, on Friday following a clash between tanker drivers and students of the institution. City Round learnt that at least three cars and many motorcycles were burnt while the mayhem reportedly paralysed academic activities. It was learnt that the crisis started on Thursday after a truck hit a pick-up van conveying some students from the main campus in Gida’n Kwanu to the mini campus of the varsity along Bida-Minna Road, Bosso, leaving some of them injured. One of the students reportedly sustained a life-threatening injury. Our correspondent learnt that the students were going for a campaign preparatory to the students’ union election which was supposed to hold on Friday. A student, who spoke to City Round on condition of anonymity, said the truck driver went into hiding at a nearby filling station which angered the students. He said students vandalised some vehicles parked at the filling station after the management refused to produce the driver. He said, “The Bida-Minna Road is terrible. Government repaired it shortly before the election and stopped trucks from plying it during the day. But immediately after the election, they returned to the road. “The students were heading for mini campus along the road to campaign for the Student Union Government election. The trailer was trying to avoid a porthole but in the process hit the van that was conveying the students. Some students were injured. The students protested at the filling station where the driver ran to and vandalised some vehicles. Everywhere was tense. There was no movement on the road and many people had to pass the night on the campus.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Abubakar Daninna, confirmed the incident, but said normalcy had returned to the campus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 