Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Senior management employees of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation on Monday signed performance bonds to deliver on key priority areas at the oil firm. NNPC’s Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, charged members of his management team to work assiduously to deliver on the priority areas of growing the nation’s crude oil reserves and production, ensuring steady supply of petroleum products and supplying adequate gas. Kyari gave the charge to the Chief Operating Officers of the various Autonomous Business Units of the corporation at a sign-off event held for the COOs to formally commit to the delivery of the key priority areas at the NNPC headquarters in Abuja. He said all the KPAs and key performance indicators were designed by in-house experts without inputs from consultants, adding that it was an indication of the talents within the corporation’s human resource base. Kyari was quoted in a statement as saying, “I have the conviction that we can deliver on these KPAs and even do more. We have enormous goodwill from our various stakeholders and Nigerians that we can do things differently. “Let me emphasise that our stakeholders have tremendous trust in us and it is only excellent performance that can sustain the trust they have in us.” He said the clear goal of his management was to drive a company that is transparent and accountable with performance excellence, stressing that the milestones for all the ABUs and strategic business units would be delivered within the timelines. Kyari said that the KPAs were the roadmap for growth and consolidation, adding that his management would ensure effective stimulation of industrial growth across the country. He pledged to ensure that all of NNPC’s seven directorates leveraged technology and innovation to deliver on their key priority areas. The corporation explained that for the upstream directorate, the KPAs included growing the nation’s reserves and increasing production; while the KPAs for the gas and power directorate included the expansion of the gas sector footprint towards stimulating industrialisation. NNPC said the refining and petrochemicals directorates would focus on enhancing local refining capacity as its KPA, the downstream directorate would ensure efficient petroleum products supply to guarantee energy security for the country and ensure that the critical oil and gas infrastructure were secured. The corporation said, “The ventures directorate would work to ensure that the corporation’s new businesses are capitalised and commercialised. “For the corporate services directorate, the key priority areas are the development of the corporation’s human capital and service delivery, while the finance and accounts directorate is charged with ensuring financing for growth and effective liquidity management.” It noted that the highpoint of the event was the signing of performance bonds by all the Chief Operating Officers to commit their directorates to the delivery of their various KPAs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 