In separate interviews with Nigerian returnees from South Africa, no thanks to the xenophobic attacks in the late Nelson Mandela’s country, some of them tell SIMON UTEBOR that though they returned empty-handed having lost all their means of livelihood in that country, they are excited to return to Nigeria What is your name? My name is Kayode Johnson. Where are you from? I am a Yoruba man from Osun State. What were you doing in South Africa? Actually, I am a stylist. Why did you choose to return to Nigeria? I returned because the problem had assumed a dangerous proportion. I could no longer bear it. From the moment I arrived in South Africa, I faced war. I went there in 2012. What can you boast of achieving since you got to the country? Actually, I made money but everything I made has been lost in the attacks. They set my shop and house ablaze and everything I had there was gone. Right now, I have nothing with me. I am hoping that everything will be fine again. Was any member of your family affected in the attacks? Of course, last night (on Tuesday) before I left South Africa, they killed one of my brothers. What was the name of that your brother? His name was Babatunde. They murdered him in cold blood. His corpse is still in South Africa. If you are to estimate what you lost, how much will it be? I lost up to R200,000 (approximately N5m). What advice do you have for Nigerians that are still there? I will advise them to return home; there is nothing like home. Why did they choose to attack Nigerians basically? It is just because of envy. They envy Nigerians. Those South African youths are very lazy. You know Nigerians are very hard-working and we know how to ‘hustle’ (labour for money). When they see that you have bought a car, they will think you are probably selling drugs, so that is their thinking. What business are you planning to do in Nigeria now? I want to start again and continue with my life. If you were given an opportunity to travel to any other country apart from South Africa, would you like to go? I am not thinking about travelling now. Right now, I want to stay in Nigeria. I will start my life here again. I know I am going to make it. I can make it in Nigeria. So, why did you leave Nigeria in the first instance? Actually, Nigerians like travelling. We believe that if you go out, you will make it. But I can see that there is potential in Nigeria. Most of us were wrongly advised before we travelled but such is life. If I see someone travelling, I will not discourage such a person but they should try to go to Europe or other countries in the western world. If at all I want to travel again, I will go to the western world. What is your name? My name is Mrs Roseth Uzomba. What was your experience like in S’Africa? It was horrible. The violence I experienced there can never be blotted out of my memory in this lifetime. Throughout the period, my kids did not go to school – they missed their exams. Everywhere was chaotic. The citizens were burning people’s things, looting foreigners’ properties and committing all manner of crimes. What were you doing there? I had a salon there for women and also did pedicure, manicure and other beauty treatments. How many children do you have? I have five children. I am married to a Nigerian man from the South-East. Why did you stop them from going to school? I stopped them two months ago because they were threatening foreign nationals’ kids. When they boasted before the attacks that they would kill foreigners’ kids, we had to quickly withdraw them from school because we knew that they usually carried out their threats. What do you think is responsible for the attacks on Nigerians and other foreigners? I believe it is just out of jealousy. Jealousy because other foreigners are hard-working, but the South African people rely on their government – they want the government to do everything for them. So, when they see other people creating jobs for themselves and making it, they become jealous. Now that you are in Nigeria, what do you intend to do? This is my husband’s country. I intend to start my business afresh. Anyway, my wife will decide on the next line of action coupled with government’s promises if they are kept. If you are asked to go back again to South Africa, would you go? Never! I will never ever go back to South Africa and I won’t allow anybody that I know to travel to that country. It is not a country to go to.  I was there for 17 years. Have such attacks been happening since those 17 years? Yes, they have been happening; it is just that this last one is the worst. It has been happening before but not to the extent of burning people’s shops, properties, houses and their means of livelihood. This is the worst because many people were killed. If you were to estimate how much you lost to the xenophobic attack, what would it be? I can’t estimate how much I lost because I had to close due to fear. When you do hairdressing business, you rely on customers but when everybody is scared to come out, how are you going to survive? That is part of my story. The experience was gruesome. I won’t wish my enemy to go that country. It is an evil country. What about your husband? My husband is coming. He was not able to come with this batch but surely he is coming. He is coming for us to start afresh here in Nigeria. I am from Congo. My husband is an Igbo man. Have you been to Nigeria before? Yes, I was here in 2011. What is your name? My name is Ibe Jonas. I am 34 years old. I dealt in auto spare parts in Pretoria. Where are you from in Nigeria? I am from Orlu, Imo State. What was your experience in South Africa like? I lost everything. They had not stopped the attacks. I was in South Africa for 14 years. I lost a lot of things, but I am very happy that I am back. I thank God. In the last attack, they burnt down my shop. It was worth R1,200,000 (approximately N30m). If I could have that money in Nigeria, I’d be a big man. I could not get anything. I came back empty-handed, except for some of my clothes and shoes. What is the experience of some Nigerians there? A lot of people are crying over there; they want to come back. It was because of the crisis that I decided not to marry and start a family there. Only God and the government can help us because I don’t have any means to sustain myself here in Nigeria. What is their disposition towards Nigerians and others? When they see a Nigerian alone, they will kidnap them, take them somewhere and kill them. They have killed a lot of Nigerians secretly. Their policemen watched as they brutalised Nigerians. Thousands of Nigerians are in detention camps in Nidela. Our government should find a way to get out innocent Nigerians there. I was there for two months for an offence I didn’t commit. Prisons are better than that camp. What other means of injustice did they mete out to foreigners? If a policeman searches you and he doesn’t find anything incriminating on you, he will plant ‘market’ (drugs) on you just because of the hatred they have for us. If you don’t give them money, they won’t leave you. They do it several times and that was how I was arrested too and detained at the camp. It was hell. It was the grace of God that brought me out early. I was supposed to spend four months there. I gave my lawyer R5,000 (approximately N125,000) to pay them before I was released. What is your name? My name is Ezenwa Obiageri Abigail. Where are you from in Nigeria? I am from Orlu in Imo State. What were you doing in South Africa? I am a businesswoman; I sell clothes, shoes, handbags and handmade beads. I make them in Nigeria and sell them in South Africa. How long have you been doing that? I have been doing that for two years. You must have made a lot of money there. How much did you make having done the business for two years? It is only two trips I have undertaken. The second trip was during the xenophobic attacks. The first one was successful. After I realised money from the first trip, I went to my customers that usually gave me goods at Alaba International Market, Lagos. I talked to them and some of them gave me goods on credit because that was how we used to do business even when I was in Nigeria. The same applied when I went to Johannesburg. Is xenophobia rampant only in Johannesburg? South Africa is very big and Johannesburg is one of the biggest cities in the country. Most places where serious attacks take place are in Johannesburg. South African citizens are really not happy with Nigerians there because of the kind of business they do there. What kind of business are they doing there? They accused them of selling drugs. Another reason why they killed some Nigerians was that they alleged that they saw a Nigerian man raping their lady. This allegation has yet to be proved. Did you lose any of your relations? No. I did not go to South Africa with any of my relations. I went alone. Why did you choose to come back to Nigeria? South Africa is no longer safe for me. Secondly, I lost so many things during the demonstration. It was not a peaceful demonstration. They burnt our buildings, destroyed our shops, stole some goods and set the shops ablaze thereafter. Actually, they looted the shops before burning them. What were the police doing during the attacks? It was so surprising that the police did not intervene when they were expected to come. It was disappointing. If it were Nigeria, the police would have risen to the occasion. From your experience, do you think the South African government was secretly supporting the xenophobes? Yes, because even the way their President was talking, there was no force. He spoke so politely to the xenophobes as if he was begging them to stop. There was no action at all. Now that you have returned to Nigeria, what do you intend to do? The Federal Government has promised to help us; I don’t know how they are going to do that but I pray they will do so very fast so that I can organise my life. What business do you intend to go into? The same business I was doing of course. I am worried mostly because of the customers that I owe money; I do not know what I am going to tell them. How much do you owe your customers? I owed over N500,000 before I left but I lost more than R20,000 (about N500,000) during the attacks. What advice do you have for Nigerians that are longing to travel to South Africa? I advise them not to go. South Africa is not good. Travelling is not good. Home is the best. With the experience I got, I won’t advise even my enemies to travel to South Africa. When you are in your country, no one threatens you, no one is making you to be afraid, no one is giving you conditions, and no one is asking you to leave the country. You needed to see the way we ran when we heard that Air Peace had released an aircraft for us; we were so glad. What is your name? My name is Onyiyechi Uzomba. I am 15 years old. What class were you? I was in Grade 9, which is equivalent of Junior Secondary School 3 in Nigeria. How are you missing your friends in South Africa? I miss my friends and I miss many other things. Are you pleased to be in Nigeria? Yes, I like it. It is better than being killed in another country. The situation in South Africa is better imagined than experienced. I am very happy the government and Air Peace brought us home. Have you been to Nigeria before? Yes, this is my second time. Will you wish to go back to South Africa when the problem is over? No. I want to stay here in Nigeria. What is your name? My name is Helen Ogunbanjo. What were you doing in South Africa? I was doing business in South Africa. I dealt in Nigerian food items. Why did you choose to return to Nigeria? I didn’t feel safe any longer in South Africa. The South Africans were burning shops and looting. This is coupled with the killing of foreign nationals, including Nigerians. When the xenophobia got to a crazy level, I could no longer operate my business. Some were telling me that if I loved myself, I should not open my shop. They threatened to burn down our shops. Already, some shops had been burnt. So, I didn’t need to be told that the threat was real. I had to run for my life and the lives of my two children. I lost about R200,000, approximately N5m. Now that you are in Nigeria, what is your next plan? I do not know yet. I am very confused right now. Anyway, I will see what I can do. I did not know I was coming to Nigeria so soon. I don’t know how things are right now in Nigeria. I hope I will be able to cope and get something to do. Did you leave anything in South Africa? I left my properties and everything I had acquired since I went to South Africa. I was in South Africa for eight years. I was born in Ogun State but my parents are from Delta State – Isoko-speaking area of Delta. What can you to say about Federal Government’s response? It was good but I think they should have done it earlier. This is not the first time we have experienced xenophobia in South Africa. Even in 2015, we experienced xenophobic attacks. I must say that a lot happens in South Africa. It is only when it is huge that people hear about the problem. It is indeed a daily situation; it is just that their local news is not interested in what happens to foreigners in their country. There seems to be a grand conspiracy against foreigners in South Africa. Findings have shown that the government of South Africa had warned media houses against reporting any negativity about the country. What do you intend to do in Nigeria now that you are back? I want to do business – I want to go into timber business. My younger sister has a shop by a sawmill and I want to see if I can partner her and move on from there. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 