Chukwudi Akasike Gunmen in the early hours of Saturday killed two persons inside their homes in two separate operations in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. While one of the victims, Anele Nwozuruaka, was killed around 2:00 a.m. in Alakahia, the other identified as Anebo Amadi was shot dead around 5:00 a.m. in Rumuekini. It was gathered that Nwozuruaka’s children had pleaded for the bandits to spare their father’s life, but their entreaties were to no avail. Sources stated that the killers came in their numbers to the Alakahia home of the late Nwozuruaka. It was revealed that while some of them stayed outside, those who shot him forced their way into the deceased’s residence. READ ALSO: Nigeria better together than divided —Osinbajo Nwozuruaka was before his death the Alakahia Chapter Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party and a youth leader in the area. Wife of the deceased, Mrs. Orlumati, explained that her husband’s murder was more painful because her children begged to no avail that their father’s life should be spared. Narrating the incident, “We were sleeping when we noticed some noise at our main door. I woke up; I did not know that my husband had also noticed it and woke up and ran to the bathroom. “Immediately, his killers, who were many in number, forced their way in and asked my husband for his ATM card and he told them that it was inside the car. My husband requested that they follow him to the car, but they said there was no need. “They dragged him to the parlour. My children and I were pleading; my little daughter pleaded, ‘Brother please leave my father alone’. But they shot him dead there. All I could hear from my husband was ‘Mother, I am gone.’” Jeffrey Omejuriowhor-Amadi, the elder brother to the deceased, said his sibling was murdered as a result of his stance against injustice, even as he appealed to the security agencies to expose those behind Nwozuruaka’s murder. “We just woke up to see the lifeless body of my younger brother, who does not have a problem with anyone. He was not a cultist, not a rapist and not also a criminal; we are all surprised. He only stands against injustice,” Omejuriowhor-Amadi lamented. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the two incidents, adding that the State Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Daudaura, had ordered an immediate investigation into the incident with a view to bringing the hoodlums to book. “I can confirm that a chief and one other person were killed; one yesterday and one in the early hours of today. It happened at Alakahia and Rumuekini. “An investigation has been launched. The CP has given a marching order that the culprits should be arrested. Normalcy has returned to the affected places,” Omoni said.