Deji Lambo, Bola Bamigbola and Sampson Itode Seven persons, including a policeman, died in road crashes that occurred on Sunday and Monday in Lagos, Osun and Rivers states. In Lagos, Sergeant Austin Imohimi and a yet-to-be identified person were killed after a truck with number plate LSD 611 XU rammed into them at the Agric bus stop, Ikorodu. Another policeman, Sergeant Ibrahim Idede; and two siblings, Nurudeen and Muniru Adebayo, who were in a Toyota Camry car with number plate FKJ 732 FS, and a yet-to-be identified person survived the accident with varying degrees of injury. One of our correspondents learnt that the victims were taken to the Ikorodu General Hospital for medical treatment. PUNCH Metro gathered that some of the victims were commercial motorcyclists operating in the area when the truck suddenly rammed into them around 8.30pm on Sunday. The truck driver, Abdullahi Aliu, was said to be fleeing from police officers, whose patrol car with number plate RRS 077 LA, he had bashed when he lost control of the vehicle due to a brake failure. When PUNCH Metro visited the scene of the crash on Monday, an eyewitness, Abayomi Daud, said immediately Aliu lost control of the vehicle, he made an attempt to divert into the BRT lane, but the truck ran over the barricade and crushed everything in its path. Daud said, “The impact of the crash made the truck to fall on the two dead victims and injured four others. Also, the container it carried fell on a Toyota Camry car, but the occupants of the car escaped. The accident happened around 8.30pm and the driver has been arrested. Two of the victims are policemen, who were using their motorcycles for commercial purposes after the close of work. “The truck was coming from the garage and had already hit a Rapid Response Squad vehicle on its way but did not stop. So, the police were chasing it and in the process of trying to escape, the driver attempted to enter the BRT lane and that was how he rammed the people to death.” Another eyewitness, who identified herself simply as Bola, while urging the government to construct speed brakers at the Agric bus stop to reduce the rate of accidents in the area, said the road was cleared around midnight. It was learnt that agencies that responded to the tragedy included the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Lagos State Transport Management Authority, Lagos State Ambulance Service and the Nigeria Police Force, led by the Divisional Police Officer, Owutu Division, CSP Margaret Okonkwo, among others. The Public Affairs Officer, LATSMA, Olumide Filade, said the driver lost control of the vehicle because of a brake failure, adding that two people died in the accident. Filade said, “What happened was that a container-laden truck was coming from the garage and going out of Ikorodu, but when it got to Agric, the truck suffered a brake failure and the driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the vehicles in front of it. “The truck had smashed some vehicles before it got to Agric, but when it got there, the container fell off and landed on another car that was going out of Ikorodu. “Two people died on the spot, while the injured victims were taken to hospital for treatment. The scene of the accident has been cleared and vehicles now move without hindrances.” In Osun State, a commercial bus painted in Lagos State colours plunged into the River Osun in the Oke Gada area of Ede on Sunday, killing three passengers. An eyewitness, Sheriff Akintunde, told one of our correspondents that the driver lost control of the bus and plunged into the river. He said the passengers were traders dealing in perishable goods, adding that apart from the human casualties, goods bought by the passengers were also lost to the crash. “The accident happened late yesterday (Sunday) and all occupants died on the spot except the driver, who was taken to the Anu Olu Hospital. The victims’ goods also perished,” Akintunde stated. Another eyewitness, Kareem Isiaka, said when the driver lost control, the bus somersaulted several times before it plunged into the river. He noted that the victims could not be evacuated immediately as it took hours before they could be brought out of the river. He added that the victims were conveyed to the Anu Olu Hospital, Ede, in a police van around 11pm. The Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Dr Rasak Akindele, explained that he was notified of the crash around 11pm, adding that the three victims died before getting to the medical facility. He added that a police van came to the hospital on Monday to evacuate the corpses. The spokesperson for the Osun State Police Command, Folasade Odoro, confirmed the accident, but pleaded for  more time to get the details, which she claimed were not immediately available. In Rivers State, an early morning accident, on Monday, claimed the lives of two persons, while others were critically injured when a car rammed into a truck parked at the Rumueme area of the Ikwerre Road in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state . Eyewitnesses said the truck was being discharged of mattresses by the side of the road when the Mazda car conveying five persons lost control and rammed into it around 5am. It was leant that the passengers in the front seat and another in the back  seat died on the spot, while other passengers and the driver of the car sustained life-threatening injuries and were taken to a nearby hospital for medical attention. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told PUNCH Metro that two of the victims were confirmed dead in the hospital, while the others were receiving treatment. The eyewitness added that he used one of the victim’s mobile phone to contact his relatives, who identified the dead victim as Bayo, who only visited Port Harcourt for a job. “The driver of the Mazda car, I guess, didn’t see the truck that was parked by the side of the road; the car ran over the caution sign and went straight under the truck. Two passengers died at the scene, while two other passengers and the driver were seriously injured and were rushed to a hospital close by,” the eyewitness stated. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said he had yet to be briefed on the accident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com