Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Managing Director of Ire Clay Products, a joint collaboration between Oodua Group of Companies and Ekiti State, Mr Abiodun Adedeji, has canvassed patronage of governments of the six south west states for the organisation to survive. Adedeji, who said the organisation, which produced building materials had been performing below capacity and struggling to survive, also called on building contractors to patronise its products for their construction works. He said at Ire Ekiti during a chat with journalists that the company’s 12 products included load bearing for setting and partitioning of buildings; sun breakers; wall facing for building beautification; decking pot used for decking; floor tiles used mostly for swimming pools and walk ways; and solid used for pavements and building armoury or oven. Adedeji said, “The advantages of our products are too many. Our products have aesthetic appeal, thermal and acoustic insulation, zero maintenance cost, fire and water resistance and durable just as plastering and painting are not required except by choice. “Ire burnt bricks will survive if governments in the whole of south west adopt the products for public projects. We crave massive patronage from governments and private developers which we are pursing vigorously, more so that we have enabling and conducive environment now in Ekiti State. “The patronage from the customers we have been able to attract is too small compared to the plant capacity, but we are focusing on the survival of the plant till the time, either government patronage will come or we secure big contracts from private developers. “Our plant is capable of producing burnt bricks that will take care of four different three bedroom bungalows in a day, which means, in a month, we can produce bricks that will build 90 bungalows of three bedroom flats. So the only option like any other big company is government patronage,” he said. Adedeji said the company had challenges with state patronage under the last administration in Ekiti State, saying, “80 per cent of the public projects that we were supposed to do to stabilize the company were not given to us by the immediate past government. We had few things that we needed to attend to for smooth operation of the company, but no fund for pursuit.” He, however, said the organisation was being repositioned at present under Governor Kayode Fayemi, whose goodwill, he said, had increased the customers’ base, gradually stabilizing sales and repositioning the firm to attract additional customers and patronage and hope of replacing some equipment to increase productivity and as well improved staff welfare. He said, “We are being positioned to supply burnt bricks for the College of Agriculture at Isan-Ekiti and the four newly approved secondary schools in Ado Ekiti to test run our capability and trust to deliver. On the issue of electricity, the state government is working very hard to ensure that BEDC improves and increases the volume of kilowatts distributed to the state. He hinged the firm’s survival on the joint ownership between Oodua and Ekiti, saying, “The owners know their roles and appreciate the partnership as well as respecting the laws and regulations setting up a private limited liability company. Government interference is at low ebb and politics is played down during decision making”. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 