Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja A man declared wanted by the Lagos State Police Command in January has been appointed into the caretaker committee of the National Union of Road Transport Workers led by Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo. The man, Mustapha Adekunle aka Seigo, is listed as number one on the new list of members of the caretaker committee on the NURTW. Adekunle, who is also a member of the All Progressives Congress, was declared wanted by the immediate past Commissioner of Police in the state, Imohimi Edgal, for his alleged role in the violence that erupted at an APC rally in which two journalists were shot. Mr Temitope Ogunbanke of The New Telegraph and Dr Emmanuel Oladesu of The Nation were shot while many others, including MC Oluomo, were injured at the governorship rally of Babajide Sanwo-Olu at Skypower Ground, Ikeja. “In view of the development, the command wishes to encourage members of the public with useful information on the whereabouts of Mustapha Adekunle, popularly known as Seigo, to report such at a nearest police station,” the Lagos CP had said. The Police Public Relations Officer at the time, Chike Oti, had said in a statement that two persons arrested in connection with the incident were helping the police in their investigation. Oti said Seigo and his entourage had gained entrance to the rally ground as supporters before his group suddenly attacked MC Oluomo. The statement read in part, “The said Mustapha Adekunle aka Seigo, an NURTW chieftain, came to the rally with a group of people and were identified at the entrance as supporters of the party. “However, at the tail end of the event, Seigo and his group, for a reason yet to be determined, violently engaged other supporters of the party. READ ALSO: Mother, son remanded for beating minor with cable “In the ensuing melee, one MC Oluomo, another NURTW chieftain, was stabbed and was rushed to EKO Hospital where he is currently recuperating while two other victims of the attack were taken to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital for treatment.” Attempts to speak with the police spokesman, Bala Elkana, on Thursday proved abortive as he neither responded to calls nor a text message. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com