Umar Muhammed and Armstrong Bakam Eleven persons were confirmed dead and scores of others sustained varying degrees of injury in a crash on the Nasarawa Eggon-Akwanga Road in Nasarawa State on Monday. Eyewitnesses at the scene of the accident told PUNCH Metro that a loaded Dangote Cement truck, sufferred a break failure and rammed into a Toyota Sharon vehicle, killing all the passengers and the driver. According to the eyewitness, passengers of other vehicles that rammed into the ill-fated vehicles also sustained injuries. The accident occurred on a hill popularly called, ‘Many have gone’. As of the time of filing this report, the mangled bodies of the deceased were still lying by the roadside. Officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps, soldiers and the police were assisting with the rescue operation. The Nasarawa State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Mr Ismaila Kugu, confirmed the accident to our correspondent in the Akwanga Local Government Area of the state. In another development, one person died, while seven students of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, sustained injuries in a crash that occurred on the Bauchi-Jos Road on Monday. The accident occurred at Miri village, a few kilometres from the Bauchi metropolis. The Public Relations Officer of the Bauchi Sector Command, FRSC, Rilwan Sulaiman, confirmed the accident to journalists in a telephone interview. He said an Opel Vectra and a Toyota Sharon had a head-on collision and the driver of the former died on the spot. Sulaiman explained that the Sharon was conveying students of the ATBU to Bauchi before the accident and seven of the students and their driver were injured. “Our operatives swiftly moved to the scene to rescue the victims. The corpse of the dead victim was deposited in the morgue of the ATBU,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  