…We’ll look into it, ICPC assures
Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Zamfara State youths under the aegis of Health, Safety and Environment Charity Initiative, on Monday, protested at the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission headquarters in Abuja, over alleged diversion of N300million released for Zamfara central health sector constituency project. The leader of the group, Aminu Ahmad, after submitting a petition to the ICPC, told journalists that the N300m was meant for the procurement of healthcare facilities at the Federal Medical Centre, Gusau, Zamfara State. According to him, available records indicate that the money was released by the Federal Ministry of Finance to the Federal Ministry of Health since 2013, but it was allegedly diverted. READ ALSO: $40m jewellery beyond Diezani’s income, EFCC insists He said, “We were very surprised to discover that the project was not executed in Federal Medical Centre Gusau despite the release of the N300 million to the Federal Ministry of Health. “We seek your (ICPC) intervention to kindly investigate the circumstances surrounding the diversion of the funds meant for the good people of Zamfara State with a view to righting the wrongs by ensuring full execution of the proposed project in FMC Gusau, Zamfara State, for the benefit of the citizens.” The spokesperson of the ICPC, Rasheedat Okoduwa, while addressing the petitioners, said that the Commission would look into their grievances. She thanked them for not resorting to lawlessness, noting that they did the right thing by submitting their petition for investigation. Okoduwa said, “Now that you have submitted the petition, we assure you that we shall look into it, any offence anybody commits or had committed since the establishment of ICPC and the passing of the law in 2000; any offence of corruption committed falls under the purview of the ICPC and would be investigated.” Responding to questions from journalists, Okoduwa said the constituency projects tracking initiative set up in April and driven by a steering committee comprised of ICPC and other government agencies was tracking the utilization of funds released for constituency projects. She said, “Ordinarily, ICPC will look into any petition on anything regarding corruption, whether it is on constituency projects or any other thing; ICPC would look into such projects. “Moreso when it now fits into the format of the framework of these constituency projects we are tracking. Definitely this would get some action because it fits into the framework, it may be easy for us to extend the project to track what is happening in Zamfara,” she added.