Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The humanitarian crisis in the troubled North-East may  worsen as the  territories believed to be controlled by Boko Haram and its affiliate, Islamic State of West Africa, won’t  receive any form of aid from any agency  relying on the United States Government for financial support, The PUNCH  has learnt. The United Nations Special Rapporteur for Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions, Agnes Callamard,  said in a  September 2 report   obtained by The PUNCH that almost all United Nations agencies except UNICEF had agreed to stop giving aid to  people in  such  areas. However, she   condemned the development, insisting  it  had  violated the  international human rights law. Callamard said,  “It was brought to my attention that humanitarian agencies in receipt of US funds are required by the US government to certify that none of their goods or services including food will end up in the hands of those residing outside government-controlled areas on the grounds that those people may be terrorists. “Only  UNICEF has refused to sign the clause with the result that their warehouses will run out of ready-to-use food by October and their health facilities will not be able to operate as of November. “I cannot emphasise strongly enough that such policies violate established principles of international humanitarian and human rights law and could amount to the deliberate starving of populations on the grounds of association.” UNICEF’s Head of Communications in Nigeria, Geoffrey Njoku, had yet to respond to a The PUNCH’s  inquiry as of press time. Although the Federal Government had claimed  no part of the country was under the  control  of the insurgents, a report by Reuters seems to state otherwise. Reuters  reported on Monday Gubio town in Borno  State had been overrun by  Boko Haram who even hold  evening prayers with residents. The report said the terrorists   had begun to  set up checkpoints, with  223,000 Nigerians living  at their mercy. About 100,000  people have already been cut off from access to aid workers following  government forces’  decision to retreat to larger bases. The reports added that the figure could rise to 121,000. Reuters’ report seems to correspond with that of the New York Times last week claiming  Boko Haram had returned stronger and with more sophisticated weapons including drones following the decision of the military to retreat to super camps. “In August, when Islamic State  stormed the North-East  town of Magumeri on the night of August 21, they had free rein,” the report  said. “Nigerian soldiers had left the town earlier that month under a new strategy of withdrawing to super camps that can be more easily defended against insurgents the army has been struggling to contain for a decade.” The Islamist militants were reported to have torched a clinic in Magumeri, ransacked government buildings and looted shops before returning to another town they had raided that night called Gubio, residents said. The new military strategy announced by  the Federal Government  in July that soldiers  would be  in big bases is designed to give troops a secure platform from which they can respond quickly to threats in the region and raid militant camps. People familiar with the military’s thinking and security officials, however, said the move was  mainly an attempt to check  casualties on the side of the military. “We strongly believe the days of BH (Boko Haram) moving freely and passing in between static defensive locations are over,” Major General Olusegun Adeniyi, who commands the anti-insurgency operation, told reporters last month. Troops’   withdrawal into large bases has coincided with a string of insurgent raids on newly unprotected towns and has left the militants free to set up checkpoints  as they roam more freely around  the countryside, according to three briefing notes from an international aid and development organisation, two security officials and residents. Soldiers are no longer protecting some key roads, cutting off access for humanitarians workers as more of the region falls under the sway of the insurgents, aid and security sources said. “It’s a mess, militarily, and a disaster for humanitarian actors,” one foreign security official said. The population of towns being abandoned by the military is a combined 223,000 people, according to one of the aid agency briefing notes. The military departures so far have cut off more than 100,000 people from aid and if more soldiers go, as many as 121,000 other civilians could flee their towns, one aid agency briefing note said. “The impact will be one of continued skirmishes – soldiers under constant strain to deal with the insurgency where Islamic State and Boko Haram dictate the momentum,” said Jasmine Opperman, a terrorism expert based in South Africa. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    