YOA Insurance Brokers, one of Nigeria’s leading insurance advisors, made its debut at the Nigerian Bar Association 2019 General Conference last week. Joining other notable corporate organisations like…(E.gs.) as exhibitors at the conference, YOA Insurance Brokers showcased its bouquet of tailored insurance advisory services, lending a different tone to the annual event. Themed ‘Facing the Future’, the conference, which held between 23rd and 29th August 2019, held at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, with the exhibitions holding at the Harbour Point Event Centre. Chief among the services on display at the conference were YOA’s Employee Benefits range of insurance solutions; a comprehensive collection of statutory and voluntary packages, which help employers reduce costs associated with human resources administration while offering the employees benefits that will improve engagement, productivity and loyalty. The annual conference attracted thousands of legal practitioners from within and outside the country and featured keynote addresses and sessions from world-renowned political and business leaders, training for lawyers, and exhibitions by corporate brands. As an advocate of professionals embracing insurance to minimize risk to businesses, YOA aligned itself with the NBA conference theme, which was borne out of the pressing need to lay a sustainable foundation for an optimistic future, a future in which the benefits of insurance plays a relevant part. YOA’s booth recorded over 500 visitors during the exhibitions. One of the participants, Sir Afam Linus Anijekwu, Managing Solicitor of Afam Law Consult, appreciated the team for an excellent outing at its maiden appearance at the conference and noted that there was a need for more organisations like YOA to help in making more information available so that more lawyers could tap into the world of insurance. He also observed that insurance knowledge is still at its infantry stage in Nigeria.  Nneka Obike, Law Officer, Ministry of Justice, on her part, acknowledged that the NBA Conference was a great platform that could be leveraged to bring relatively novel ideas in the insurance sector to greater prominence. She said that, though insurance was not as mainstream here as in other countries, she firmly believed that it would have made considerable growth in the next 5 years due to the work of companies like YOA. “I feel that, with more of this kind of presentation, insurance in the next five years would be better perceived and better received, with a new kind of confidence in the process that would help spark up genuine interest in insurance policies,” she remarked. Speaking on her experience at the NBA Conference, Linda Wobo, Team Lead – Employee Benefits, YOA Insurance Brokers, noted that the “event has been a great avenue for the YOA team to talk to great minds on the essentials of insurance, and our organisation is looking forward to capitalising on more of such gatherings to reach out to professionals.” The NBA conference participants avidly took turns to visit the YOA Insurance Brokers booth where they were treated to cocktails and given a dossier on the insurance solutions available. Bringing the event to a close, the NBA president, Paul Usoro, in his closing remarks, affirmed that the 59th Annual Conference was a huge success and something worth celebrating. He also announced that the 60th General Conference of the Nigerian Bar Association was scheduled to hold on the 21st – 27th August 2020. About YOA The YOA Group traces its roots back to 1978, when Yinka Omilani and Associates, Nigeria’s oldest professional loss adjuster, was formed. In 2002, YOA Insurance Brokers was established to meet the growing need for Nigerian expertise in oil and gas insurance broking. Since then, the company has gathered significant experience across a range of sectors, handling some of Nigeria’s most complex insurance deals. For More Info: Click Here 