Raphael Ede, Enugu Igbo communities in various parts of Benue State, especially Gboko on Monday alleged that the Igbo were being targeted for kidnapping and murder by native gangs and bandits. Addressing journalists at a press conference in Enugu, Mr Okafor Nnolim, one of the leader’s of the Igbo community in Gboko, claimed there was no week an Igbo person was not kidnapped or murdered in Benue State, saying, “We have been subjected to paying millions of naira in ransom.” Nnolm added, “We can no longer do our businesses freely for fear of being kidnapped or murdered. Since January this year, we have had over 50 Igbo people kidnapped and some murdered in cold blood by bandits and suspected herdsmen.” On his part, Chief Ndukaku Onyekwere, a fabrics merchant at the Gboko Central Market accused security agencies of complicity. “Igbo in Benue State are being systematically decimated and our businesses are gradually being ruined by these kidnappers and bandits,” he lamented. Similarly, Mr Ikem Ani lamented that the people had been subjected to untold hardship. He said, “There is virtually no week that an Igbo person is not kidnapped. We have tried to engage the state Police Command to no avail. We are therefore crying out for the world to know the fate of Ndigbo in Benue State.” Lagos-Ibadan road: Oyo deploys 100 traffic managers Ademola Babalola, Ibadan Oyo State Government has announced the deployment of 100 traffic managers to direct traffic during the ongoing construction of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The Executive Chairman, Oyo State Road Traffic Management Authority, Dr Akin Fagbemi, told journalists on Monday in Ibadan that the officers would be at the points where construction would be taking place to control traffic. “The road connects the two states and have great economic impact on the whole nation. If we allow the partial closure to be without giving technical support to the contractor in the area of maintaining smooth traffic at the points of diversion and turnings, the road may be blocked totally. “Therefore, the essence of government at all level is to make living conducive for the people and the present administration will not shy away from doing its best to serve the people that voted for good governance.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 