Oluwatobi Akindele Residents of the Ibafo community have called on the Ogun State Government to rehabilitate the link roads in the Ofada Mokoloki Local Council Development Area of the state, which are in surgent need of attention. The residents, while lamenting the difficulties of daily commuting, said the roads required urgent attention due to the closure of a part of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. PUNCH Metro gathered that roads such as Papa/Orimerumu, which leads to Ibafo, Mowe and Agbado; and Sote, which leads to Magboro and Akute, were in bad conditions and required urgent attention, with the residents fearing that the partial closure of the expressway would compound their difficulties. A landlord in the area, Muyiwa Oyetunde, said the government needed to support the efforts of the residents by fixing the roads, whose current state was making life unbearable for the users. He stated, “We have been making efforts every year. Sometimes, we grade the road and sometimes, we buy gravel to fill the potholes but we find out that they are not working. “We have spoken to the local government chairman. The present governor has also been there and he had an agreement with us, we are still waiting for him to to fulfil that. Our representative in the state House of Assembly also made promises concerning our roads. Now that the rain has subsided, they should start working on them. “Anytime there is a blockage of the expressway, we use these alternative roads. We are appealing to the government to remember its promises. Previous administrations only came to erect signboards and nothing was done afterwards. Before the last elections, officials of the new administration saw the situation of things and promised to help us; so, they should not short-change us now.” One of the community leaders, Pastor Kayode Odumosun, who said letters written to the government on the problem had yielded no result, urged it to provide a better town planning in the area. Odumosun stated, “The roads are a problem because when it rains, people get stuck and vehicles get damaged. The situation also poses a risk to lives. In the case of an emergency, the bad road network makes it difficult to have access to health care facilities on time. “We know the government cannot touch the whole of Ibafo; it should help us with the trunk ‘A’ roads and we can work on the trunks ‘B’ and ‘C’ roads, which are the sub routes. “The only thing that was done for Ibafo in the eight years of the previous administration was the pedestrian bridge, which is not even completed. The present governor had a town hall meeting with members of the community and it was part of our demands that all inner roads in Ibafo were bad and if fixed, could lead to Lagos, which would provide better social economic capacity for the state; we need urgent intervention from the state government.” A youth leader in the community, Mr Tobi Wilson, urged the government to give priority to Ibafo as a lot of revenue was being generated from the community. “Most of the taxes being generated in Ogun State come from this area. So, it is only fair that part of what is being generated here is given to us in return. A motorable road makes it easier to dispose our refuse in the community and is a medium of generating income for the government,” he added When the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, was contacted, he assured the residents that places not yet fixed would be rehabilitated soon. Somorin said, “We are currently embarking on palliative measures; roads are being reconstructed and our engineers are in the field. Also, the governor just signed the Public Works Agency Bill into law, meaning that we can do our roads by ourselves. “We don’t need third party contractors and I assure our people that they will be fine. Wherever has not been touched now will still be touched with respect to the palliative measures.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 