Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta A rape victim has identified one Abiodun Makinde as the person, who allegedly raped her and went away with her pants. Makinde allegedly raped the woman penultimate Thursday but was arrested the following day after he robbed two other women of their belongings. The victim was said to have reported the incident to the police and the suspect was later apprehended after he was identified by his latest victims. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, stated these in a statement on Sunday. Oyeyemi said Makinde was a member of a one -chance robbery syndicate that specialised in terrorising commuters on the Sango/Owode-Idiroko Road in the Ipokia Local Government Area of the state. The PPRO stated, “The suspect was arrested following a distress call made by the duo of Gloria Edoh and Saidat Akinola, who complained that they both boarded a cab from Owode to Sango, but on getting to the Olokopupo area of Atan Ota, two men they met in the car suddenly brought out knives and other weapons, with which they forced them to surrender their belongings. “The sums of N37,000 and N48,000 were collected from each of them as well as their Tecno phones, after which they were pushed out of the moving vehicle and sustained varying degrees of injury. “They subsequently found their way to a nearby hospital for treatment, but while returning from the hospital, they sighted and identified Abiodun Makinde as one of the hoodlums, who robbed them hence they raised the alarm. READ ALSO: Doctors, dentists face tribunal for professional lapses “The alarm they raised attracted the DPO, Atan Ota, SP Abiodun Salau, who was on a routine patrol of the area with his men and they raced to the scene, where the suspect was arrested with the help of members of the public. “On getting to the station, one woman (name withheld), who had earlier complained of a similar incident, also identified the suspect as one of the hoodlums, who robbed and raped her on September 12, and made away with her pants. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 