Etim Ekpimah and Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe As the partial closure of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway entered the second day on Tuesday, traffic flow worsened on the road. Motorists, who spoke to our correspondents, lamented the hardship they were facing, saying the decision to partially close the road was ill-advised. A section of the expressway was on Monday shut for repairs and traffic was diverted from the Kara Bridge and vehicles, both inbound and outbound Lagos, used the outbound lane up to the Isheri junction, where it was redistributed into the normal lanes. When PUNCH Metro visited the site on Tuesday, police officers and other traffic regulatory agents were seen at the Isheri intersection. However, some road users lamented the hardship they faced in the gridlock caused by the partial closure of the road. A motorist, Adewale Adetunji, who lamented the hours he spent in the traffic, urged the Federal Government to repair the alternative routes linking Lagos with other states. He said, “My experience is not a good one at all; I’m coming from Sagamu and going to Lekki, and I have spent up to two hours in the traffic without getting to where I am going. “I expect the government to have created an alternative route before this partial closure; Lagos is a big and crowded place with many people coming in to do business and every day, thousands of vehicles ply this route; so, the government should have created an alternative route to make things easier for people.” A businessman, Solomon Osagiede, who was coming to Lagos to buy goods, noted that he had to alight from the bus and trek to where the road was free. He said, “I was coming from Benin and going to Idumota to buy goods, but when I got to this section of the road, I had to alight from the bus conveying me due to the traffic, because I’m still going back to Benin today (Tuesday). I want to trek to Berger so that I can join another bus to Idumota to buy my goods.” Another motorist, Keji Ayotunde, noted that if the government had compelled its contractors to use quality materials for road construction, the roads would have lasted many years and there would not have been any need to close a major road. She said, “This is bad. Our governments have never been serious for once. They do not have the interest of the citizens at heart in doing anything. “I thought when they announced that they were going to close down the expressway, they would construct alternative routes, which will also serve people living in Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states for many years, but this has not been done.” A passenger, who identified himself simply as Sanyaolu, said Nigerians, who spend hours in traffic, would gradually die of stress if care was not taken. He said, “We didn’t say they should not construct the road but the Sagamu Road through Ogijo to Ikorodu should have been repaired before blocking this place. “I left Sagamu around 11am and this is past 2pm and I have not got to where I am going and I’m still returning to Sagamu today (Tuesday) and I don’t know when I will get there. “They are killing us gradually because when you are spending four to six hours every day inside traffic, your lifespan reduces.” However, some motorcyclists expressed delight at the situation on the road as it had enabled them to make higher returns. According to them, their daily income has increased due to the traffic on the road. A motorcyclist, who identified himself simply as Bawaza, told one of our correspondents, “This traffic has helped me very well and I have realised N5,000 already today, but if there was no traffic, I would have made around N2,000. “This traffic has really helped me. I thank God that there is traffic. I convey one person from Arepo to Berger for N500 and two people for N1,000; and from Mowe to Berger is N1,000 per passenger. That is how we work now.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 