Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta A 27-year-old man, Ebuka Everest, reportedly went berserk, tied his former employer’s legs, stabbed and robbed her for sacking him. The suspect allegedly inflicted injuries on Theresa Nnamdi, who resides in the Mowe area of the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State. It was gathered that Ebuka, who worked in Nnamdi’s fish farm, forced his former boss to transfer the sum of N40,000 to his account and took away some valuables to avenge his dismissal. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed these in a statement on Thursday. Oyeyemi said the suspect had earlier attacked the manager of the farm before proceeding to his former employer’s residence to attack her. He explained that Ebuka was sacked after the manager allegedly caught him stealing from the fish farm. The PPRO added that Ebuka’s dismissal prompted him to pounce on Nnamdi and the farm manager. He stated, “The arrest of the suspect followed a distress call received by policemen at the Mowe Division around 4.30pm that armed robbers had invaded the house of Mrs Theresa Nnamdi on Association Estate, opposite the Jehovah’s Witness Church in Mowe, and held the occupants of the house hostage. “On receiving the distress call, the DPO Mowe Division, SP Marvis Jayeola, mobilised his anti-robbery team and moved to the scene, cordoned off the house and subsequently arrested one Ebuka Everest, who had stabbed the woman in her right hand before tying her legs with a rope and covered her mouth with her bedspread. “The suspect, who worked in the fish farm of the victim before he was sacked due to his shady character, first went to the farm, where he stabbed the manager multiple times, before coming to attack the woman in her house, and forced her to transfer the sum of N40,000 to his account. “He equally ransacked the woman’s room and stole her laptop, the sum of N5,000, phones and other valuables before he was arrested by the police with the help of members of the public. “On interrogation, the suspect claimed to have worked for Nnamdi for four months and that he lived with the family throughout that period. “He further stated that his problem started when he was duped of his four months’ salary by an online scammer, who promised to facilitate his travel abroad, but ended up collecting his four months’ salary and thereafter blocked him.” Oyeyemi said the suspect claimed that in order to raise money, he went to the farm to steal some items, but was caught by the manager, who reported him to their boss, and he was instantly fired. “It was that annoyance that made the suspect to first attack the farm manager before coming for the madam,” the PPRO added. He said the police recovered from the suspect some items, including a knife, broken bottle, the rope he used to tie the victim’s legs, phones, laptop and other things he stole from Nnamdi’s house. Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, had ordered the transfer of the suspect to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation and rosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  