Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has arrested three men for allegedly defiling underage girls in various parts of the state. PUNCH Metro learnt that one of the suspects, Fatai Nafiu, on August 31, allegedly had sexual intercourse with a 15-year-old girl on Adetoke Street, Bariga. It was gathered that the 28-year-old suspect, who was arrested around 8.15pm on Saturday, confessed to the crime, while the victim was taken to hospital for treatment. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, in a statement on Sunday, said the suspect would soon be charged. He added that one Taiwo Sheuases was also arrested for defiling a 15-year-old girl in the Bariga Market Square, while 50-year-old Isaac Ubogu was apprehended for defiling a three-year-old girl on Awoniyi Elemo Street, Ajao Estate. Elkana said, “On August 31, 2019, around 8.15pm, the Bariga Police Station received a complaint that one Fatai Nafiu of No. 9 Adetoke Street, Bariga, forcefully had unlawful sexual intercourse with a 15-year-old girl (name withheld). A team of detectives from the Family Support Unit arrested the suspect. He confessed to the crime. The victim was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect will be charged. “On August 27, 2019, around 7.20pm, the Bariga Police Station received a complaint that 34-year-old Taiwo Sheuases defiled a teenage girl of about 15 years old in the Bariga Market Square. The suspect was arrested by detectives from the Family Support Unit and he confessed to the crime. The victim was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect will be charged. “On August 30, 2019 around 10am, the Ajao Estate Police Station received a complaint that one Isaac Ubogu, 50 years old, of No. 31 Awoniyi Elemo Street, Ajao Estate, defiled a three-year-old girl. The suspect was arrested by detectives from the Family Support Unit and he confessed to the crime. The victim was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect will be charged.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 