A 73-year-old woman has given birth to twins girls. It was her first ever pregnancy and childbirth. By this medical feat, the aged mother is being suspected to be the world’s oldest woman. According to Asian News International, Erramatti Mangayamma was given in marriage to Yarramatti Rajarama Rao 57 years ago when she was a mere 16-year-old girl. Rajarama is now 82 years old. She was, however, unable to conceive naturally, a situation she said tried her patience and made her feel unwanted. “My inability to conceive a child caused me to feel isolated from my peers, but my husband stood by my side like a rock,” she said. The native of Draksharamam, East Godavari district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, finally approached a doctor for in vitro fertilisation, it was reported. “She approached Sanakkayala Umashankar, who owns a IVF clinic at Kothapet,” reports said. “Erramatti Mangayamma was able to conceive on her first round of treatment,” Umasankar revealed. However, due to her advanced maternal age, Erramatti was admitted to the hospital throughout her pregnancy, Umashankar said; adding that the entire process was done under the supervision of cardiologist P.V. Manohar. She had the babies at the private clinic in Guntur on Wednesday through a caesarean operation. “The mother and the twins are healthy and safe,” doctors at the clinic said. Before Erramatti Mangayamma’s motherhood experience, a woman from El Puerto de Santa Maria, Spain, Maria del Carmen Bousada de Lara, had a set of twin boys via cesarean in 2006 at the age of 66. Later, Omkari Panwar from the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, broke the record after giving birth in 2008 at an alleged age of 72, as she was unable to produce a birth certificate to authenticate her age. In the case of Erramatti Mangayamma, she and her husband considered IVF after her neighbour gave birth at the age of 55. The couple consulted local medical experts, who agreed to administer IVF treatment despite the fact that Erramatti had already experienced menopause. Reacting to the criticisms of administering IVF on a woman as old as Erramatti, Dr. Umasankar said, “We followed all rules.” 