Samson Folarin The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has ordered the Divisional Police Officer, Odo-Noforija Police Station, Buba Amos, to produce two brothers alleged to have raped a teenager in the Epe area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, told our correspondent on Tuesday that the DPO was also expected to bring along the case file. PUNCH Metro had reported that the two suspects, Alaba and Abiodun Musa, allegedly took turns to rape the victim last Monday in the Igbooye community. They were alleged to have hypnotised the 16-year-old before taking turns to violate her. Despite threats from the suspects, the teenager was said to have opened up to some residents, as community youths apprehended the brothers and handed them over to the men of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps. The security men in turn handed them over to the police. Elkana had last Tuesday told PUNCH Metro that Muazu had instructed that the suspects be transferred to the Gender Unit of the command in Ikeja. However, the suspects were said to have escaped in controversial circumstances. When our correspondent contacted the DPO, he denied the claim, saying it was not true that the brothers had escaped. Another policeman at the station insisted that they were still in custody. A source told PUNCH Metro on Tuesday that Amos was making frantic efforts to produce the suspects. “He has already asked for two days to produce them,” the source added. Reacting to the reported escape of the brothers, Elkana said a fresh directive had been issued for the DPO to produce them. “We have called for the case file. We asked the DPO to come with the parties and the case diary since he told you that they did not escape,” the PPRO stated. Asked if the DPO had submitted any report on the whereabouts of the suspects, Elkana said the command was awaiting his compliance with the order first. He noted that further actions would be taken if the suspects were not produced. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 