Chief Executive Officer, Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria and West Africa, Mr Lamin Manjang, talks about the banking industry in Africa and its dynamics in this interview with ALEXANDER OKERE What’s your career trajectory in the Standard Chartered Bank? I have been with the bank for 20 years; I’m originally from The Gambia. So I started with Standard Chartered Bank in The Gambia in 1999; incidentally, that was the same year we opened in Nigeria, so we are both celebrating our 20th anniversaries this year. Having worked in The Gambia for about three years, I then moved to Tanzania in 2002 and was there for about a year. And then in 2003, I went to Sierra Leone as the CEO. Since 2003; I have been CEO across multiple markets, first, in Sierra Leone, then in Uganda for five years and then to the Middle East in Oman. Then I was back to Africa, in Kenya and East Africa, for five years before moving to Nigeria and West Africa this year. What’s your impression of the Nigerian market? I am very delighted to be joining the team in Nigeria; Nigeria is incidentally the biggest market for us in Africa, in absolute terms. It is the largest contributor to our top line and bottom line, so it is a very strategic market and I am very excited about the opportunity to lead the team in terms of taking the business, which is quite big, to the next level with the support of the team that I have on the ground. Sustainability Banking has been one of the issues on the front burner across the banking industry. What is the Standard Chartered Bank doing in this area, especially as regards Nigeria’s infrastructure, human development and SMEs? Obviously, we are a commercial bank and that is our core function which we will continue to engage in and do to the best of our capability. However, beyond just the core function of banking, it is also to look at sustainability and for us; sustainability is not something we see as separate from our core business. This means that it is integral to our core business. When we do our core business well, we are actually contributing to the overall economic development of the country. But in terms of the pillars of our sustainability agenda, we have now refreshed it to focus on three areas: education, employability and entrepreneurship. We believe that these three areas are critical in terms of enabling future workforce, especially the youth to be able to contribute meaningfully to the economic development. On education, we believe that once people are educated, they either get employed or go into entrepreneurship. We are looking at ways we can support all of these three pillars. Our Women in Tech Programme was recently announced to actually enable women entrepreneurs in the tech space because that is an area where women are not very strong; generally, they are in the entrepreneurship field but when it comes to technology, you find out it is heavily dominated by male [techies]. So, we came up with a programme specifically targeted at female entrepreneurs; we take them through an incubation programme in partnership with Pan Atlantic University so that out of the nominations that we likely get, we narrow them down to the top 10. Then those ones will go through the screening process and the five finalists will be selected. We will give them money to accelerate their businesses and then give them the necessary support to take the businesses to the next level. We started it in the US about five years ago; we brought it to Kenya two years ago. I was there at the time we launched it in Kenya and I am very delighted we are able to do it in Nigeria. What are you doing in the area of infrastructure and SMEs financing? In terms of the other areas on infrastructure and SMEs, again, these are areas the bank has the capacity to support the Nigerian economy. When it comes to power, Standard Chartered was one of the biggest supporters of Power Africa. When President Barack Obama was in office, he launched Power Africa and Standard Chartered pledged that we were going to be a very strong partner of the Power Africa initiative in terms of SMEs. Again, that is an area of focus; we have units within the bank. There is a commercial banking division and there is a business banking division; the commercial banking division will look at larger enterprises and the business banking will look at smaller enterprises. Again, it is my intention to grow that portfolio in line with the desire to see more lending to SMEs. Is Standard Chartered Bank investing in power? I think across other markets, we have actually supported power projects; I know in Zambia, for instance, we supported a project there. We have pledged that infrastructure is a space we want to support across different footprints. Of course, as a commercial bank, it depends on the projects that get to our table in terms of viability or in terms of the requirements of the projects. So, we do have the capacity, both financial as well as technical, to be able to support infrastructure projects but it depends on the type of projects that are presented. Coming from Kenya where mobile money is a huge success, what do you think Nigeria can learn? M-Pesa obviously started as one of the most successful mobile money solutions that were pioneered in Kenya. It did not start off that way. I am a former Chief Finance Officer at Safaricom in Kenya. So we talked about how Safaricom came up with M-Pesa; initially, it was actually more for the ability to give out microloans and ability to collect repayment. If you give out microloans of say $100, obviously you have to be able to have the system to collect payments from that loan. If it’s $5, you cannot have a very cumbersome, very expensive process for collection, so that was how the system of coming up with a mobile solution where somebody then can pay that microloan using a mobile app came from. And from that, the opportunities for people to make payment just started expanding. The good thing about the M-Pesa was that at that time, the regulator was very supportive, so the Central Bank of Kenya saw that it was an innovative development and that ‘though it is in the telecom space, let us allow it to flourish and see how it goes’. So, I think that ability to create space for innovation to flourish is really what distinguishes Kenya from many markets. Others have tried it, but their regulations could be too tight and, therefore, the opportunity for the product to gain ground would be lost. So, for now, if you go to Kenya, M-Pesa is a way of life; everything from paying your maid to your driver, shopping, paying for a visa is done through the M-Pesa platform. That has also helped in financial inclusion, so Kenya has a financial inclusion rate of about 75 per cent, which is one of the highest across the continent. I know Nigeria is also very keen to increase the financial inclusion matrix, and of course, the Central Bank (of Nigeria) has indicated that it is very supportive of measures to get telco to start in that space, banks to look at agencies banking model to be able to reach out. I think we can learn some lessons on what other markets have done and see how we can improve statistics inclusion in Nigeria. Do you think the model should be telco-driven or bank-driven? That is a debate. Of course, in Kenya, it was telco-driven though banks will like it to be bank-driven. By the way, I was quite impressed with the NIBSS (Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System) that we have in Nigeria. In fact, the banks in Kenya decided to come up with similar platforms like NIBSS to allow real-time money transfer from one bank account to another. I think the banks in Nigeria have clearly taken the lead as opposed to Kenya where Safaricom took the lead. At the end of the day, what we want is for the customers to get the best value for money. It will be bank-led obviously for me. If you don’t play in the space, then you give a chance for somebody else to come and play in that space. So this is our space; payment and money are our strengths. You said you are here for the long haul and that by September you would have spent 20 years in Nigeria, but your record shows you have only 22 branches, meaning you have yet to cover Nigeria’s 36 states. How are you going to impact all the people and parts of the country? On the issue of branch network, you are right that we have 22 branches, mainly in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. For retail banking, we have decided to adopt a focused strategy which is that we are going to focus on a few cities as opposed to the nationwide sought of mass marketing strategy that other banks follow. We are investing in the digital bank platform and we will be announcing major changes on that front. We believe that the future of retail banking would largely dovetail towards the digital channels. Quite honestly, if you look back at 30-40 years ago and the role of traditional bank branch and then look at the role of a branch today, you will realise that it is quite different. So, the things that would typically take you to a bank branch are things that you can now do without visiting a branch and, therefore, that speed, convenience and accessibility that digital channels provide for clients are areas I think we should invest more in as opposed to physical channels. I am sure you know about banks that are now digital, from opening an account to transacting; everything has to be digital. So, we are going to spend more in that space and that will give us the capacity to scale up and reach out. You are aware of the CBN governor’s agenda on bank’s recapitalisation and lending to the real sector as opposed to the concentration of your investments in Treasury Bills and Bonds; what is Standard Chartered going to do to support these initiatives? About the recapitalisation and whether it would have any impact on lending to the real sector, we will see how that evolves. Obviously, the signal has been sent that over the next five years we might see an increase in capital for banks, and I think as Standard Chartered, we are well-positioned. We will respond to that at the appropriate time but the issue of lending to the real sector is something that is absolutely important. Purely from a macroeconomic point of view, investment is a key component of GDP as well as consumption and these are all areas where the bank can play a critical role. So, all I can say is that we are ready if those projects are there. It is important obviously to support the government but even the government realises that it is more important to have more of those funds going into T-bills and bonds deployed into supporting the real sector of the economy. How do you evaluate your performance in the area of international trade finance? We are one of the strongest banks when it comes to international trade given our unique footprint as an international bank. Our operations are primarily in Asia, the Middle East and in Africa. You will find out that most of the trade flows today are either between Africa and Middle East or Asia, especially China and India and these are markets where Standard Chartered is very strong. So, for our clients that bank with us, it is a very seamless transaction when you are opening an LC (Letter of Credit), for instance, or making a payment on our platform, especially if the supplier on the other side is also a client of Standard Chartered. So, I think for trade finance, we actually are very strong. It is one of our strong areas of competitive advantage. Your bank intends to grow its retail business via digital channels. What concerns do you have about cyber security? You are right; digital channels are susceptible to cybercrime and, therefore, this is one of the key threats on the radar of every single bank. Of course, cybercrime does not just affect the banking industry, it affects any other industry, but banking in particular is highly susceptible to cybercrime. We take it very seriously and obviously we look at these as an area of collaboration rather than competition. So as an industry, we take a view that we should all collaborate because the view that I have is that on the cyber security front, the bank with the weakest defences is the weak link in the chain and then opens up the rest of the industry to threats. So, we had some meeting at the bank CEOs level. There, cyber security was one of the areas where we all agreed collectively that we needed to do more, invest and beef up all defences. As a bank, we obviously invest a lot on cyber defences and it is an evolving thing. One thing we should never do and nobody should ever do is get complacent and feel that we have got our defences, they are okay and I can relax.  I think it is an area we are constantly monitoring and trying to stay ahead of the curve. What is your unique programme for the Nigerian market? I think the area of service is where we want to leverage in this industry. What we are selling is the whole customer experience; the whole service space is something we should really step up and be distinguished for the quality of the service and the quality of the products that we bring to the market. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com