Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Operatives of the Kaduna zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission have arrested six suspected fraudsters, including a Nigeria Correction Service officer, for defrauding Nigerians using bank details obtained through SIM swaps and Automated Teller Machines. The suspects  include: Urulo  Henry, an Inspector with the Enugu Command of Nigerian Correctional Service, Ugonna Owete, Ugonna Obinna, Chigbo Chidiebere, Oha Kingsley and Ahamefula  Izuchukwu The EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said the suspects were arrested in separate operations, sequel to a petition by a customer of Access Bank. The petitioner had alleged that monies were illegally transferred from his account without his authorisation. According to him, sometime in February 2019, he opened an account with Diamond Bank (now Access Bank) which he funded to the tune of N5 million and instructed the bank to open a fixed deposit account, with the sum of N1m from the earlier account, as opening balance. The complainant said he was receiving regular alerts until the end of March when the alerts stopped coming, prompting him to demand his statement of account from the bank. Upon receipt of his bank statement, he discovered to his chagrin that the sum of N2,911,480  had fraudulently been transferred to several accounts between April 5 -9,  without his authorisation. Following his petition, the EFCC said it immediately swung into action and traced some of the funds to three of the suspects: Obinna who got N1.5m;  Chidiebere, N210,000 and  Kingsley who received N300, 000. All three were promptly arrested. The statement said, “Further investigation revealed that Urulo,  Owete, a known criminal who was earlier arrested and paraded by the Enugu State Police Command for conspiracy and armed robbery and  Izuchukwu were equally complicit in the fraud. READ ALSO: Gunmen kidnap SAN, others in Delta, demand N15m “Upon arrest, items recovered from Urulo included a Toyota Camry, documents of two plots of land, two National Housing Fund passbook (one belonging to him and the other bearing Ani Wilfred Ochechukwu);17 ATM cards of different banks bearing different names; two NCS identity cards; two smartphones and two Nokia phones; one NHIS card, one voter card, 26 starter packs and 15 SIM cards of various networks.” Two sachets of cannabis sativa, eight ATM cards bearing different names and banks, six starter packs, and four SIM  cards of various networks, one ECOWAS passport, one Nigerian Defence Academy dependant ID card and a voter card were also recovered from Izuchukwu. The anti-graft agency said the suspects will be arraigned after investigations.