Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Waste managers in Lagos have said they have been repositioned to keep the state clean in line with the vision of the new Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The spokesperson for the Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria, Mr Olugbenga Adebola, said members were poised to change the face of the state by evacuating all the backlog of waste and black spots. Adebola, who spoke during the inauguration of new AWAM executives, said it had become important for all stakeholders to think out of the box by seeing waste as a resource. “Waste is not a waste unless it is wasted. The association is working with the governor to ensure that all the waste generated in Lagos State is sorted from the household level to promote waste recovery, recycling and conversion,” the leader of the PSP operators said. He stated that the state government through the Lagos Waste Management Authority and the PSPs (private sector participants) would soon commence the distribution of colour-coded waste bags to residents of the state to encourage source segregation of waste. Adebola explained that though there was currently a huge challenge at the disposal end which had been impacting negatively on the efficiency of operators, the state government had promised to invest more in disposal sites’ rehabilitation to increase the turnaround time of the PSP trucks. “The PSPs are committed to investing massively in the industry to ensure that Lagos is returned to those glorious days when the state received several awards as one of the cleanest states in Africa,” he said. He noted that the state became a reference point for best practice in waste management in Nigeria and the entire continent, so much that the PSP programme which is a Small Medium Enterprises model was replicated by several states in the country and other African countries. The newly elected chairman, Mr David Oriyomi, said waste managers would work harder to ensure cleaner environment in Lagos State. Oriyomi commended the governor for reappointing Mr Tunji Bello as the Commissioner for the Environment, describing him as a tested and trusted hand in environmental management. “The association is partnering other key stakeholders especially the financial institutions that are expected to provide adequate funding to members for capacity development,” he said. The Managing Director of LAWMA, Dr Muyiwa Gbadegesin, who was represented by the agency’s Executive Director, Mr Ibraheem Odunboni, stated that there would be a sustained partnership with the private sector to keep Lagos clean. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 