Chukwudi Akasike Gunmen in the early hours of Saturday killed two persons in two separate operations in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. While one of the victims, Anele Nwozuruaka, was killed around 2am in Alakahia, the other identified as Anebo Amadi was shot dead at about 5am in Rumuekini. It was gathered that Nwozuruaka’s children had pleaded with the bandits to spare their father’s life, but their entreaties were to no avail. Sources stated that the killers went in their numbers to the Alakahia home of the late Nwozuruaka as some of them stayed outside while those who shot him forced their way into the deceased’s residence. Nwozuruaka was before his death the Alakahia chapter chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party and a youth leader in the area. Wife of the deceased, Mrs Orlumati, explained that her husband’s murder was more painful because her children begged to no avail. She said, “We were sleeping when we heard noise at our main door. I woke up; I did not know that my husband had also woken up and run to the bathroom. “Immediately, his killers, who were many in number, forced their way in and asked my husband for his ATM card. He told them that it was inside the car and requested that they follow him to the car, but they said there was no need. “They dragged him to the living room. My children and I were pleading; my little daughter pleaded, ‘brother please leave my father alone’. But they shot him dead there. All I could hear from my husband was, ‘mother, I am gone.’” Jeffrey Omejuriowhor-Amadi, the elder brother to the deceased, said his sibling was murdered as a result of his stance against injustice, even as he appealed to the security agencies to expose those behind Nwozuruaka’s gruesome murder. READ ALSO: We’re charging N50,000 acceptance fee to improve infrastructure –FUOYE “We just woke up to see the lifeless body of my younger brother, who did not have problem with anyone. He was not a cult member or a rapist, we are all surprised. He only stood against injustice,” Omejuriowhor-Amadi lamented. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the two incidents, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Daudaura, had ordered an immediate investigation into the incidents with a view to bringing the hoodlums to book. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 