Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki and Raphael Ede, Enugu The National Youth Council of Nigeria on Wednesday alleged that the raid on the Abuja residence of the Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, barely one week after the South-East Governors’ Forum took a bold decision against herdsmen in the region, had confirmed that some prominent individuals were sponsoring the herders’ crises in the country. The group lamented that President Muhammadu Buhari had failed Nigerians on his constitutional responsibility to protect lives and property in the country as killings and maiming had become the order of the day. Addressing journalists in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, the National Vice Chairman, South-East zone of the council, Sam Igwe, urged the police to disclose reasons for the invasion of the residence of the governor,  to enable Nigerians to know the motive behind the raid. The Igbo youth leader, who condemned the alleged invasion, called on the President to  save Nigerians from the dungeon of insecurity, which, according to him, currently pervaded the nation. He noted that the invasion of the governor’s residence was an invitation to war, as the Igbo youth were being pushed to the wall of self-defence. He stressed that the act was to plant incriminating weapons to rope him in and silence him. Igwe said, “It is very unfortunate that the Abuja home of our dear governor was raided. Nigeria is in state of coma and Nigeria is collapsing under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. It is unfortunate that Nigeria has lost its image to negativism. READ ALSO: Lagos electrician, pregnant wife, three children, guest found dead “The invasion came few days after he led other South-East governors to a meeting where they took a stand on herdsmen; banning herdsmen with cutlasses and AK-47.” Also,  an Igbo socio-political pressure group, Nzuko Umunna, on Wednesday condemned the alleged invasion. A statement by the Igbo group signed by Joe Odumuko and Obinna Mbanefo, the chairman and secretary general, respectively, called on President Buhari to order a full-scale enquiry into the  invasion, with a view to ensuring that the perpetrators were brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com