Edward Nnachi, Nnachi About 10 persons had been reportedly killed by gunmen, who attacked Ukwuagba village of Ngbo community, in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Our correspondent gathered that the attack, which occurred on Saturday, might not be unconnected to the alleged abduction of four persons from Effium community, in the Ohaukwu LGA on Wednesday allegedly by the people of Ngbo. The Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, who confirmed the killing on Sunday during a meeting with stakeholders at the council headquarters, called on the residents to produce the hoodlums that attacked Ukwuagba community, “during which 10 persons were brutally killed.” Represented by the Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe, the governor recalled that stakeholders from the area had met in the past to end killings in the area, pointing out that during the meeting, they had vowed to stop such attacks. Umahi, who observed that the first civilian governor of the state hailed from Ohaukwu, said stakeholders from the area and traditional rulers should be able to know the people behind such killings in their domain. “It is a shame on all of you. We did not come to paint pictures or clap for you. Do not deceive the state government. you know what is happening to you. You are the ones killing yourselves. “You should know people who are causing trouble in your domain. The traditional rulers should be able to fish out people who are causing trouble. We have not come with the message of comfort but to sound a note of warning. “We are tired of hearing sentimental stories of what is happening in the Ohaukwu LGA. What we want is action. Some people signed an undertaking with the government. Most of you are here and for those who are not part of it, we will make you part of it. Because they had agreed that if anything as tragic as what happened in the past happens in Ohaukwu again, we should hold you responsible. “All these people that signed that undertaking must produce the killers; you can set up a vigilante to do that . Enough is enough,” Umahi said. Speaking earlier during the meeting, the Chairman of Ohaukwu LGA, Clement Odah, said there were two versions to the attack, regretting that the killing in the area remained a challenge to stakeholders. He said, “Yesterday (Saturday), we were attacked from the direction of Ukwuagba village in Ngbo community. Persons numbering 10 were killed in their homes. “The reports are before the security agents. We are in a very sad mood. It is a very big challenge to the stakeholders of this council.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 