Lawyer and entrepreneur, Oluwatodimu Ige, speaks with DAVID OLADUNJOYE on the intricacies of running his businesses What are your educational qualifications? I studied Law at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. I also have a diploma in Project Management. I’m an associate arbitrator with the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, UK. What is the name of your company and what is your official position? I am the principal partner at Oluwatodimu Ige and Associates, a law firm. I also founded a company that offers domestic and logistic services called Toddy Domestic Services, and I am a director at a real estate firm, Poe Properties. How do you manage to run your companies successfully? As lawyers, we are not supposed to be involved in the daily activities of any other business outside the legal profession, so my participation in the logistic company and real estate firm is purely supervisory. I give instructions, attend meetings and see how things can be moved to the next level. I interact with the managers of both companies and give them instructions which they follow up on. How do you source for the personnel that you contract out to people for domestic services? I always give preference to people who are traceable to me because I have found out that it makes them more committed. Because of the trust issues we have in our country, we try to source from in-house and we ensure that when those people come, they are competent for the jobs required of them. We also get people from social media and we painstakingly verify their credentials. What service do you render at Poe Properties? We are into property management. Most landlords who have a number of properties don’t like to relate with their tenants directly, probably because of their age or schedule, so we step in and serve as a go-between. We also bring in prospective tenants and manage them. Some real estate practitioners are believed to be unscrupulous, renting one property to several people. How are you different in this regard? Clearly, that is an action against the law and by virtue of my training as a lawyer, I don’t engage in practices that are illegal because we are ministers in the temple of justice. If anyone is caught doing that in our company, such person will be fired and handed over to the police. What are the highlights of running your companies so far? We ensure we do not follow the same pattern and that keeps us thinking outside the box. We make sure we satisfy our customers because the business world is very competitive. Whenever we discover an anomaly, we find a way to resolve it immediately. Our slogan is ‘talk and do’. Once we say something, we implement it. How do your companies empower youths? At Toddy Domestic Services, we have a lot of students of UNILAG, LASU and other schools in Lagos on our platform. We assign them properties within their areas to clean and our rates are flexible. We also have nannies who take care of babies when their parents are not around and many students do that as a side hustle. We place a lot of emphasis on training students who work with us. We are also planning to start our own foundation and give out scholarships, especially to the students on our platforms who have done well. What are some of the challenges you face in the course of running your businesses and how have you been able to overcome them? The major challenge is staffing. People often claim to be who they are not and when you investigate, you find that they are not what they claim to be. Secondly, we have had issues with some people due to the fact that when you employ them, they work so hard in the first month and you think that you have got a worker from heaven. But at the end of the day, their energies fade, probably because they are expecting more money. Another challenge is the economic factor. We try to overcome these problems by thinking outside the box. Have you worked with any other company in the course of your career? Yes, I worked with a law firm called Kalalo and Kalaro. I still have a relationship with the owner of the firm because he trained me until I could stand on my own. Even when I run into problems, I still call him and we discuss issues and make sure they are resolved amicably. What is your philosophy of life? There are three basic philosophies that keep me going. Firstly, integrity is key and I only say what I can do. Secondly, I believe in hard work. Ever since I was young, I have never been idle. I recall that immediately I finished from secondary school, I worked with a pharmaceutical company where I sold medicated powder. Thirdly, I believe we should treat others the way we want to be treated. I am of the opinion that what you give to others is what you will get in return; not necessarily from the same person. I also believe that respect is reciprocal and I always want to help other people. Even when I am recruiting or offering our services, compassion is key. We must always think about the interest of other people, and not just ourselves alone. I believe if every individual can adopt this philosophy, it will make things better for everyone on earth. What are your other interests? I enjoy reading novels (not just legal books). I also enjoy listening to comedy and I serve as a master of ceremonies when I have the time. What advice do you have for youths who want to be successful? The first advice I would like to give is that everyone will surely have an opportunity, no matter one’s background. So what one does with that opportunity is key. For every old man that has regrets, it’s mostly because he failed to utilise opportunities he had when he was younger. We should always be prepared for when opportunities come. Like the late Obafemi Awolowo said, “the day a man stops learning is the day he starts dying.” I think our youths should take that to heart. What do you think is the major problem of today’s youths that stops them from fulfilling their dreams? Many of them think that life is a bed of roses, probably because of what they see on social media. They don’t know that nobody posts their challenges on social media, just their flashy lifestyles. When you tell people you are the CEO of your company, they start referring to you as a big man, not knowing that there is more pain than gain for starters with the pressure of meeting targets. Also, many of our youths lack depth. They just look at the surface and say this is what I want. These days, artisans don’t have lots of apprentices like they used to do because nobody wants to learn or work anymore. But I feel that by counselling them, our youths will come around. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com