Enyioha Opara, Minna Eight suspected armed robbers have been arrested by the Niger State Police Command. The suspects are Ahmed Kamaldeen, 23; Mohammed Hassan, 21; Victor Dizawo, 21; Abdulraham Baje, 21; Hassan Suleiman, 22; Yakubu Kopa, 26; David Solomon, 29; and Umar Sani, 21, all students of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University in the Lapai Local Government Area of the state. It was learnt that one Hauwa Ibrahim and five other students of the institution reported to the police that some hoodlums attacked and inflicted injuries on them, while dispossessing them of their valuables and money. Following a tip-off, the hoodlums were trailed and apprehended by a team of policemen from the Lapai Division. One of the suspects, Kopa, a 400-level Sociology student, told our correspondent, “I am not an armed robber; I have no connection with the robbery attacks in the university; rather, I am a dealer in Indian hemp. “I sell Indian hemp to students and non-students and I use the proceeds to pay my school fees. I am not getting assistance from anybody. It is through this business that I was able to help my siblings by paying their bills. “My parents are old and cannot afford my school fees and those of my siblings; I had to trade in cannabis to help myself.” The command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammad Abubakar, confirmed the arrest of the students on Wednesday, explaining that they were rounded up by police personnel while trying to escape. Abubakar said Kopa was identified by one of the victims as the prime suspect, adding that the matter would be charged after investigation. Three students of the same institution were arrested for armed robbery three weeks ago when they allegedly raided a 25-room off-campus hostel and dispossessed the occupants of their phones, laptops, iPads, clothing, jewellery and other valuables. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 