Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Mr Omoyele Sowore, on Wednesday met the condition of bail granted to him on Tuesday by the Federal High Court in Abuja for his release from the custody of the Department of State Service. His lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN), visited the DSS headquarters in Abuja, on Wednesday, after Sowore complied with the Tuesday’s order of court which directed him to deposit his passport at the court’s registry as condition for his release from the custody of the security agency. “I am currently at their headquarters. Sowore, having complied with the condition given by the court, I am here for his release,” Falana told our correspondent on the telephone at about 4pm on Wednesday. However, checks with Falana as of the time of filing this report at about 7pm on Wednesday, showed that the activist had not been released. An “affidavit of compliance with court order” deposed to at the Federal High Court in Abuja by a lawyer in Falana’s law firm, Mr Marshal Abubakar, confirmed the submission of Sowore’s passport to the Deputy Chief Registrar of the court as directed by Justice Taiwo Taiwo, on Tuesday. It read in part,  “That on September 24, 2019, this honourable court per Hon. Justice Taiwo Taiwo mandated the applicant/respondent to release the respondent/applicant forthwith. “That the said order has since been served on the applicant/respondent (DSS). Attached hereto and marked Exhibit 1 is a copy of the endorsement by the applicant/respondent. “That the court also ordered the respondent/applicant to deposit his passport with the Deputy Chief Registrar of this honourable court within 48 hours. “That the respondent/applicant’s passport with number A50255207 has been deposited with the Deputy Chief Registrar of this honourable court.” A letter titled, ‘Notice of compliance with court order’ was signed by Abubakar and addressed to the office of the Deputy Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court in Abuja. The letter was received by the office of the DCR on Wednesday. It read in part, “In line with the court order we respectfully forward with the instant correspondence, the passport of Mr Stephen Omoyele Sowore with passport number A50255207 to your good self.” Justice Taiwo had on Tuesday ordered the release of Sowore, from the custody of the DSS. The judge said the activist should be released to his lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), who is to produce him for arraignment whenever he is needed. The judge however said since charges had already been filed against the activist, he must deposit his passport and other travel documents to guarantee his availability for trial. He ordered that the passport should be deposited at the court’s registry within 48 hours. He said since the order for detention permitting the DSS to keep the activist for 45 days had expired, the activist ought to be released immediately. The DSS, on September 3, arrested Sowore, the publisher of SaharaReporters and former presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections over his call for revolution protest scheduled to hold on September 5. Justice Taiwo, on September 8, granted an ex parte application by the DSS permitting the security agency to keep the activist for 45 days. The 45 days period expired on Saturday. Barely 24 hours to the expiration of the 45 days detention order, the Attorney-General of the Federation’s office filed charges of treasonable felony, cybercrime offences and money laundering against him before the Federal High Court in Abuja. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 