Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two brothers for allegedly defiling a 16-year-old girl in the Igbooye community, Epe Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the suspects, Abiodun and Alaba Musa, accosted the victim on Sunday while she was running an errand for her father. PUNCH Metro learnt that the suspects allegedly hypnotised the victim before deflowering her. A source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told PUNCH Metro that the suspects had just returned to the community to visit their family when they committed the crime. He said, “Abiodun and Alaba, who are indigenes of the town, had just returned to Igboye from Lagos to visit their family when they raped the girl. They raped her all through the night. “Her father had sent her to return a plastic container he had used to bring pap water to boil with herbs from a pap seller and the girl, who had to pass through the suspects’ house, was dragged into the house and Abiodun chanted some incantations and she was hypnotised. “When the girl regained consciousness, she saw Abiodun on top of her and she became unconscious again; and by the time she woke up again, she saw Alaba on top of her.” Our correspondent gathered that when the victim did not return home, a search party was organised by neighbours and the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps. It was learnt that the semi-conscious victim was found in a neighbouring town, Mojoda, dressed in a gown belonging to the daughter of the younger sister of the suspects. PUNCH Metro learnt that the victim, whom the suspects had threatened with death if she reported the incident to anyone, confessed after pressure was mounted on her. The youth of the community arrested the siblings and handed them over to the LSNSC, which in turn handed them over to personnel of the Odo-Noforija Police Station. READ ALSO: We’ll stop killing of young women – Rivers It was gathered that doctors confirmed that the victim was raped after a medical examination was conducted on her at the Primary Health Centre, Epe. The Lagos State Government, through its Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, was said to have shown interest in the case with a view to taking over so as to ensure that the siblings were prosecuted. The DSVRT Coordinator, Mrs Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, said, “We are working with the police on the case. The investigation is still ongoing.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 