Peter Dada, Akure Some communities in Ondo South Senatorial District, Ondo State, have been reconnected to the national grid after 20 years of blackout, Klick Konnect Networks International Limited has said. It was gathered that at least 1,000 communities in the district had been disconnected following an alleged non-payment of electricity bill by the residents of the affected communities. The Chief Executive Officer, Klick Konnect Networks International, Mr Alex Ajipe, said the reconnection to the national grid was made possible by the intervention of the state government. He disclosed this in a letter to the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu. Ajipe said the firms located in Ore in Odigbo Local Government Area of the state collaborated to bring about the reconnection of the communities to the grid as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. The letter read, “The most significant development is that, thanks to your personal intervention, Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub and their host communities have just been electrified. This is very significant to the host communities, which had no electricity for close to two decades, and it is also significant to the Linyi investors who had relied on self-generated, expensive sources to power their equipment.” Aside from the reconnection to the national grid, Ajipe noted that the presence of the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub in Ore had led to an increase in the Internally Generated Revenue of the state government. The CSR initiatives of the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub, according to him, include the provision of transformers in order to ensure stable electricity supply and the provision of potable water to the host communities. “The Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub has employed massively from the host communities. They are training and transferring knowledge far beyond their host communities and they have assisted in providing critical infrastructure within and beyond their host communities,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 