Maiharaji Altine, Gusau Multiple people lost their  lives  and many others injured following a head-on-collision along the Gusau- Zaria road in Zamfara State in the early hours of Friday. The two vehicles – a petrol tanker and Peugeot 307 –immediately burst into flames, burning all  passengers in  the  vehicles  beyond recognition. A  boy was electrocuted when he touched a cable destroyed by the vehicles, while three firefighters sustained varying  degrees of injury and were rushed to a hospital. It took  firefighters who arrived in three fire trucks  more than five hours to put out the fire. Many motorists, who spoke to our  correspondent,  explained that they spent three to four hours waiting at the scene of the accident due to gridlock. Police and soldiers  were later mobilised  to clear the road, but  motorists still found it difficult to move due to traffic congestion. An eyewitness, who gave his name as Yunusa Musa, said the tanker driver was trying to avoid a motorcyclist who was ahead of him when he lost control of his vehicle and hit the  Peugeot 307  coming from the opposite direction. Yunusa  said, “Immediately the two vehicles collided, they were engulfed in flames, with  occupants of the two vehicles  burnt  beyond recognition.” He  said the  boy who was terrified as a result of the accident and was running for his dear life and  stepped on a  cable destroyed by the vehicles  was electrocuted and died on the spot. Confirming the incident, the Federal Road Safety Corps officer  in charge of operations  in the state, Ibro Danladai, said they had yet to have the casualty figure,   but trying to identify those that lost their lives in the accident. Danladi  said  the drivers of the  vehicles were among those who lost their lives. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  