Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt One person was reportedly killed on Sunday in Taaba, Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State, by gunmen suspected to be members of a deadly cult. It was gathered that the cultists moved into the community on motorcycles and began to shoot indiscriminately, scaring people away in the process. The incident, according to a source, occurred around 7.30pm and lasted for more than 15 minutes before security personnel forced the hoodlums to leave the area. It was also learnt that motorists had to make quick U-turns when they heard the gunshots in order to avoid being hit by stray bullets. While the deceased was said to have died on the spot, another, who was hit by a stray bullet, was reportedly rushed to a nearby hospital. “The incident happened yesterday (Sunday) and I heard that one person was killed, while another person was injured. The cult guys were later chased away by policemen,” another source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, stated. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, identified the deceased as Promise Bibie, adding that another person was hit by a stray bullet from the bandits. Omoni stated, “Gunmen suspected to be cultists yesterday (Sunday), around 7.50pm, went to the Taaba community in the Khana Local Government Area, shot and killed one Promise Bibie, while another person was hit by a stray bullet. “Immediately the report of the incident was received, our men from the Bori Division were mobilised to the scene, but the hoodlums, on sighting them, ran away. The policemen followed them, but were not successful in arresting any of them.” He added that a manhunt had been launched for the hoodlums on the orders of the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura. “A search for the hoodlums is on. Calm was immediately restored, while investigation has been ordered into the incident by the Rivers State Commissioner of Police,” Omoni added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   