Okechukwu Nnodim and TED ODOGWU The Kano Electricity Distribution Company has described its suspension by the Transmission Company of Nigeria as outright disobedience to the market operations agreement and rules binding on both parties with regard to the power sector franchise in the country. The Head, Corporate Communication, KEDCO, Ibrahim Shawai, made the assertion on Saturday following a publication in a national daily that TCN had suspended KEDCO on July 29, 2019 and August 6, 2019. He said it was clearly evident that KEDCO was not given fair hearing, pointing out that due process was not followed. Furthermore, he stressed that the wrong suspension was issued on the twitter handle of TCN, without official notice to KEDCO. He also pointed out that KEDCO was denied the opportunity to defend itself as stated in market agreement rules. “Similarly, the intervals between the two suspensions show a violation of due process, which is in breach with the market rule,” he added. Shawai said following the alleged injustice KEDCO approached a Federal High Court in Abuja and obtained an injunction restraining TCN from going ahead with the suspension but TCN disobeyed the order and promptly suspended KEDCO. He said the suspension of KEDCO was unlawful and a breach of order for a matter that was before a Federal High Court in Abuja with suit number FHC/ABJ/ CS/939/2019. “Upon this, the court gave an order granting the prayer pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice and adjourned the matter to be heard on September 5, 2019,” he added. However, the TCN said that KEDC was making false accusations against the body. The General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, said that TCN gave KEDCO time to discuss the issues but they did not come after which the Market Operator held a hearing where the Disco claimed the Transitional Electricity Market was declared illegally. He said, “It (KEDCO) also said that the market rule does not have a legal backing because it was not signed by any President. But this is not true because the market rule was signed by late President Musa Yar’Adua. Another outcome of the meeting was that Kano Disco does not have capacity to pay its bills.” On the court order, the TCN spokesperson said, “that order came after we had disconnected them. And what the court said was that we should discontinue further action, so we stayed action. It did not say we should reconnect them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  