Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation on Wednesday said it recorded a total of 45,347 pipeline breaks on its downstream pipeline network between 2001 and half year 2019. The NNPC’s Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, stated that in 2018 alone, a total of 19 fire incidents were recorded on the petroleum products’ pipelines. He said it was difficult for the oil and gas industry to deliver much value to the economy without effective and efficient pipelines operations. Kyari was quoted in a statement issued by the oil firm as saying, “As a major player in the oil and gas industry, the NNPC operates over 5,000km of pipelines traversing many communities to link terminals, three refineries and 20 depots for efficient transportation of crude oil and refined products. “In addition, the NNPC has over 1,700km of natural gas pipelines to supply gas to power plants and gas-based industries, including deliveries to trans-national reception points.” He lamented that these huge pipeline assets had become difficult to operate efficiently as a result of incessant activities of vandals and other criminal syndicates that were becoming increasingly sophisticated. The NNPC helmsman said the corporation was ready to collaborate with all stakeholders to respond aggressively to cases  of pipeline vandalism across the country with a view to mitigating them. He said the firm was determined to boost domestic gas utilisation to improve power generation and boost industrial growth. Kyari noted that the support of all, especially pipeline professionals, was required to drive the initiative to fruition. The Director-General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, Chidi Izuwah, according to the statement, advocated the adoption of the Public Private Partnership model as a solution to the funding challenge hampering the expansion and modernisation of the nation’s infrastructure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com