Maiharaji Altine, Gusau Zamfara State Government has said it is in possession of credible intelligence that some disgruntled politicians in the state are making efforts to destabilise the state through the use of Boko Haram. A statement by the Director General, Media and Publicity to Governor Bello Matawalle, Alhaji Yusuf Idris, said, “Some politicians are intending to collaborate with Boko Haram to launch series of attacks on innocent people of the state in order to scuttle the relative peace currently enjoyed as a result of the peace and dialogue process initiated by the present administration. “According to the intelligence report, the cruel and mischievous elements have perfected plans to launch the attacks in seven local government areas of the state and in other strategic places within the state capital.” He said two important personalities in the state were also targeted for elimination should this dastardly act succeed. The targeted local governments, according to the press statement, are Gusau, Tsafe, Talata Mafara, Anka, Zurmi, Maru and Maradun, while the strategic places targeted are  Gusau Central Mosque and Gusau Mammy Market where people are known to gather both at day and night. The statement explained that the Boko Haram elements were said to have been recruited from far and wide to carry out these heinous acts slated for between Monday, September 23 and October 25, 2019. Matawalle said he found it very imperative to “alert the people of the state especially people of the listed local government areas to be very vigilant, wary and watchful and promptly report to the security agencies nearest to them in the state if they notice any acts that seems to be suspicious for immediate action.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 