Feyisayo Popoola The Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria has renewed the call for increased investment of the Pension Fund Administrators in the capital market. ASHON said an increase in the investment of pension funds would deepen the capital market. In a statement on Monday, it urged the government to utilise the market to raise long-term funds to finance the budget in the areas of infrastructure projects. The Chairman, ASHON, Chief Patrick Ezeagu, frowned on the current re-introduction of Value Added Tax to capital market transactions. He said the capital market needed to be deepened in order to increase its capacity. Ezeagu noted that this should be one of the areas where the PFAs could be deployed to strengthen the market. According to him, the assets held by the PFAs largely have long-term tenor and are desirable on the stock market in a win-win situation. He also advocated the need for more enlightenment on the benefits of increasing asset allocation of the PFAs to the capital market. He said, “The way forward is to encourage and educate the retail investors to continue to take advantage of the fundamentals of the market. “The National Pension Commission should encourage the PFAs to increase their holdings in equities as a matter of policy, being long-term securities, since their business model is long-term in nature.” Ezeagu, while commenting on the risk-aversion measures for investors in the capital market, explained that existing and potential investors should contact stockbrokers for sound professional advice. He also spoke on the introduction of VAT to the capital market, arguing that there was no justification for it. He said, “We believe that the conditions that necessitated the waiver of VAT on capital market transactions are still prevalent. Its reintroduction will definitely set the market backwards in terms of reviving investor confidence.” According to him, VAT will increase the market’s transaction cost, thereby making the market uncompetitive. Ezeagu described the re-introduction of VAT as a great disincentive to investment in the capital market. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  