Eniola Akinkuotu The Edo State Police Command has commenced an investigation into the death of an operative of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in Benin, the Edo State capital. Although the investigation has not been concluded, it is suspected that the deceased, Williams Oyibogare, died of a suicide because two bottles of a pesticide, Sniper, were found in his home located at the Giwa Amu area along the Airport Road. It was further alleged that a suicide note was found on his phone which the police have already recovered. The spokesman for the EFCC, Mr Wilson Uwujaren, confirmed Oyibogare’s death, but said the commission was waiting for the police to conclude its investigation before making any further comment. “It is true that one of our operatives died. The police have begun an investigation into the matter and we hope to hear from them soon. That is all we can say for now,” Uwujaren said. A colleague of the deceased told SUNDAY PUNCH that Oyibogare recently returned from his annual leave looking emaciated. She, however, said it was too soon to make any conclusion. “He returned from leave recently. He looked pale and seemed to have lost weight. He may have died from an illness or it could also have been suicide, but we cannot say for sure since we don’t live with him. Let us wait for the police to conclude their probe. An autopsy would be able to reveal the real cause of his death,” she said. Speaking with our correspondent on the telephone, the Public Relations Officer, Edo Police command, Chidi Nwabuzor, said the police would wait for the autopsy before making further comment on the matter. “Investigations are ongoing and it would be too soon to make any conclusions at this stage; it is too early to make any pronouncements. Of course, there will be an autopsy to know the cause of the death and inquire what happened,” Nwabuzor said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   