Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe One person was confirmed dead while four others were seriously injured after a petrol-laden tanker went up in flames on the Kara-Ibafo end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Wednesday. PUNCH Metro learnt that the tanker, travelling out of Lagos, fell into a ditch around 5.15am and exploded around 4.40pm while its product was been trans-loaded into another tanker. It was gathered that crashes involving the exploded tanker and another one conveying Automotive Gas Oil (diesel) had occurred at the Kara-Ibafo end of the expressway. While the AGO was successfully transferred into another tanker, the petrol-laden tanker exploded while its product was being trans-loaded. PUNCH Metro learnt that the corpse of the victim had been deposited in a morgue, while the injured persons, including a firefighter, were rushed to a nearby hospital in the area. Our correspondent learnt that firefighters from the Ogun State Fire Service and the Lagos State Fire Service extinguished the inferno, while officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps cleared the wreckage to ease the gridlock caused by the accident. The Public Relations Officer, Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, who confirmed the accident, noted that the efforts were being made to restore normalcy to the road. He stated, “Earlier today, there were two tankers that had an accident on the road outward Lagos; one was convying diesel and the other one was conveying PMS. [READ ALSO] Xenophobia: NANS opposes cultural exchange programme with South Africa “While trans-loading was done for the one conveying diesel, the one with PMS exploded in the process of trans-loading and one person died and four other persons were injured, including a fire service operative. The people injured have been rushed to the Divine Touch Hospital in Kara and efforts are been made to restore normalcy.” According to the Ogun State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Clement Oladele, the accidents were caused by excessive speeding around the construction zone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com