Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Two people including a  councillor from Bonny Local Government Area  of Rivers State were kidnapped on Thursday  after  gunmen suspected to be pirates attacked two passenger boats. The gunmen simultaneously attacked  boats along  the Bonny-Port Harcourt water route, dispossessing the occupants of the boats of their money and other belongings. While one of the boats that was attacked was travelling to Port Harcourt from Bonny, the other  was moving to Bonny from Port Harcourt. A source from the area, who gave his name as Richy, said the whereabouts of the councillor and one other prominent Bonny indigene could not be ascertained as of the time of filing this report. “The two boats were attacked and while some of the passengers belongings, including cash, were taken away and allowed to go, a councillor and another prominent person from Bonny were taken away by the gunmen. “This thing happened on Thursday, but till this moment (Friday) they are still missing. Governor Nyesom Wike provided gunboats to ensure security on Bonny waterways, but what they do is to use the gunboats to escort expatriates and other big men. “We are praying that those who kidnapped the two people  should free them. This is not the first time this is happening; there has been incessant attacks by pirates and we are calling on the  government and  the security agencies to find a way of enduing it.” The  member representing Bonny State Constituency, Mr Abinye Pepple, condemned the attack by pirates on innocent people. “Yesterday (Thursday), we witnessed a very unfortunate incident on the Bonny-Port Harcourt sea routes, which the good people of Bonny have risen to condemn in all ramifications. “As I speak, my heart is bleeding over the most recent pirate attack on innocent people of Bonny. It is very unfortunate and saddening that we are still at the mercy of  pirates, who have continued to boldly attack us.” Spokesman for the police in the state, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, could not confirm the incident, adding that nobody had officially reported the crime to them. Also, spokesman for NNS Pathfinder, Lt Jim Byang, told our correspondent that he was not aware of the incident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  