Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government is doing a lot to improve the energy situation in Nigeria, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipreye Sylva, stated on Monday. Sylva disclosed this on the sidelines of the 24th World Energy Congress in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, according to a statement issued by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation in Abuja. The minister also stated that the Federal Government was committed to bringing prosperity to Nigerians through solving the nation’s energy challenges. He was quoted in the statement as saying “Energy is always at the heart of our prosperity because in Nigeria, oil is central to our national development. Power today has become very central to everything we do. “A lot is being done by the Federal Government to improve the energy situation in the country. Government has since recognised the need to improve the nation’s energy situation and that is exactly what we are poised to do.” The President of the 24th WEC and UAE’s Minister of Energy and Industry, Suhail Al-Mazrouei, said there was need for global collaboration among energy stakeholders towards addressing the numerous challenges facing the Industry. “It is through foresight, commitment and unity that we can collectively meet the growing energy demand of the world,” Al-Mazrouei stated. He explained that the annual global gathering would challenge participants’ thinking and ultimately drive action towards better energy solutions for the benefit of future generations. The Chairman of WEC, Younghoon David, said the council would continue to rally global energy leaders towards a more sustainable energy future. The 24th WEC is a four-day interactive programme designed to address the critical issues facing the global energy industry today and this year’s congress hosts participants from over 150 countries. .Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 