Rasheed Bisiriyu with agency report Motorists and other people using the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway are getting agitated over gridlock resulting from the partial closure of a section of the road. A construction company, Julius Berger, on September 2 partially closed the Lagos-bound lane of the Berger Bus Stop-Kara Cattle Market section of the road and commenced reconstruction work on the section. Vehicles, both inbound and outbound Lagos, used the outbound lane up to the Isheri Junction, where it is redistributed to the normal lanes. The partial closure, which is meant to complete the inward and outward sections of the expressway, had been causing gridlock on the busy corridor. The situation is worse whenever there is an accident or a breakdown of articulated vehicle on the narrow road and people are made to spend agonising hours trying to get out of the gridlock. Out of frustration, many commuters have to resort to trekking long distances including the desolate Long Bridge in the night to get to their destinations. The Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria said a little patience by motorists could prevent traffic jam on the expressway during the reconstruction. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria on the issue, the Lagos State Chairman of the NURTW, Alhaji Mohammed Musa, called on motorists to exercise patience on the highway to reduce the gridlock in the area. Musa said that if motorists were patient and obeyed traffic rules and regulations, nobody would spend needless hours in the traffic. “A little patience will do the magic. Learn to obey traffic monitoring agents; obey diversion signs; be lane discipline and we will see everything working out well,” the RTEAN boss said. The union leader, however, urged the contractor handling the project to speed up work as the road tended to be busier during the `ember months’. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com