Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has beckoned on investors at the recent Gas Technology Exhibition and Conference in Houston, United States to invest in the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas company. The NNPC’s Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, who made the plea while speaking at a gas and power breakfast briefing on the sidelines of the just concluded conference, also stated that Nigeria was committed to harnessing its abundant gas resources for the benefit of Nigerians. Kyari, who was represented at the conference by the Managing Director of the Nigerian Gas Company, Salihu Jamari, was quoted in a statement as saying, “Nigeria is more of a gas nation than oil. And for us, gas is the future. We have therefore committed to providing the necessary support required to ensure Nigeria takes its rightful place in the international gas market.” The NNPC boss, according to the statement from the oil firm in Abuja, described the NLNG as a very critical company for Nigeria and appealed to prospective investors to consider investing in the organisation for the benefit of shareholders and the entire Nigerians. He added, “There are a lot of opportunities within Nigeria’s LNG value-chain. I would like to assure you that the NLNG is the best destination for investment.” He said the NNPC was working to ensure that Nigeria’s abundant gas resources were utilised to fulfil government’s power aspirations by developing the gas infrastructure across the entire gas value chain and opening up the domestic gas market. Kyari stated that Nigeria’s approach in terms of implementing the energy mix was participatory, which in the long run would make energy available to the citizenry by utilising the opportunities provided by the renewable energy solutions. In his remarks, the Managing Director, NLNG, Tony Attah, said the company was well on track to attain the Final Investment Decision on Train 7, which would see its production rise from 22mtpa to 30mtpa. “In the next month or so, we should be able to conclude on the FID for Train 7,” Attah assured investors at the conference. In similar development, the Alternate Chairman of the Board of NNPC, Thomas John, called on shareholders of the NLNG to maximise Nigeria’s abundant gas resources and generate more revenue for the nation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 