The National and State Houses of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal in Oyo State on Saturday dismissed a petition filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ademola Omotoso against Musiliudeen Akinremi of the All Progressive Congress and two other serving lawmakers. Aside Akinremi, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe also of the APC from Oluyole constituency won, alongside a PDP lawmaker from Ido/Ibarapa East, Oluyemi Taiwo. In upholding Akinremi’s victory as the winner of Ibadan North federal constituency election held in February this year, the judges who were unanimous in their decision in favour of the lawmaker, and awarded N150, 000 cost against Omotoso. Delivering judgment in favour of Akinremi, the three-man panel of the tribunal which has Justice Anthony Akpovi as Chairman, Justice Sambo Daka and Justice Chinyere Ani as members unanimously said Omotoso’s petition lacked merit. READ ALSO: Sanchez Flores returns to Watford after Gracia sacked The tribunal also dismissed the petition filed by Mr. Mojeed Mogbonjubola of the PDP in Oluyole Federal Constituency against Akande-Sadipe and another petition filed by Prof. Joseph Olowofela of the APC against Taiwo in Ido/Ibarapa East constituency. All petitioners were contesting that the elections were marred by malpractices; failure to comply with the provision of Electoral Act and that the respondents did not win by the required number of valid votes. The petitioners also wanted the order of the tribunal to declare them winners or in the alternative that
the elections were nullified. The judgments read each of them said the petition lack merit and awarded cost of N150,000 each against the petitioners. The tribunal held that no election conducted in the world without minor error and that the petitioners failed to prove that the substantial non-compliance affected the outcome of the election. The panel further said that the petitioners failed to tender necessary documents and witnesses to defend their petition, adding that, the burden to prove that the election failed to comply with the provision of the electoral Act lie with the petitioner.