Olalekan Adetayo and Friday Olokor The Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy on Thursday faulted the position of the Yoruba group, Afenifere, and others who have criticised President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent decision to replace Vice President Yemi Osinbajo-led Economic Management Team with Economic Advisory Council that will be reporting directly to him. It said the President’s decision was not unusual and that he did not act unconstitutionally. The group’s position was contained in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja by its National President, Igbini Emmanuel. Emmanuel said the President’s decision was similar to some decisions taken by some of his predecessors. He said, “He has therefore not acted unconstitutionally and unusually. When, before now, he chose to delegate most of his constitutional powers to Vice-President Osinbajo, he was not condemned by Afenifere and others. “What then is wrong when now he chose to take full charge and discharge his functions directly by himself in order to be held fully accountable by Nigerians?” Emmanuel described as illogical the argument that Buhari’s action was calculated to make Osinbajo irrelevant and redundant. He added, “We want to state without any equivocation or sentiments that by the provisions of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution, as amended, the Offices of the Vice President and Deputy Governors of Nigeria are redundant, ab initio, and only made slightly relevant by the benevolence of any President of Nigeria or governor of a state who chooses to and to what extent and duration he so chooses. “This has been the case from May 29, 1999 with President Olusegun Obasanjo and many governors being benevolent to empower their deputies to an extent and for some duration before withdrawing such benevolence for reasons best known to them but which they did within their constitutional powers.”. READ ALSO: CBN restricts forex for importation of cassava products Meanwhile, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Timi Frank, on Thursday called on Osinbajo to beg God and seek forgiveness over the role he played in sharing the N10,000 TraderMoni used to allegedly deceive most people before the last general elections. Frank, in a statement in Abuja, said, “It is said that when you eat with the devil, use a long spoon; Osibanjo has been eating with the devil with his bare hands and that is why he can’t say anything to defend the masses. “He was used to commit electoral fraud through TraderMoni. Now that his services are no longer needed, he has been made irrelevant.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 