Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt A motel located in the Rumuola area of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, was on Sunday sealed off after the body of a young woman was discovered in one of the rooms. It was gathered that an unknown man had lodged in the hotel with the young woman, whose name could not be ascertained as of press time. The incident is the latest after another young woman was found dead in a hotel on Saturday in Obo, Omoku, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of the state. Sources explained that the murder of the woman in the motel followed a similar pattern of snuffing lives out of women in hotel rooms in the state. Our correspondent learnt that the lifeless body of the young woman was discovered by one of the cleaners at the motel, who went to clean the room on Sunday morning. A source close to the motel said the man, who brought the woman to the facility, gave false information regarding his identity while filling the guests’ register before they checked in. The victim, according to the source, had no means of identification as nothing to link her to any person or place was found on her. The latest killing was said to have shocked Rumuola residents, who said despite the directive of the Rivers State Police Command that CCTV cameras be installed in hotels, most owners and managers had refused to comply. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, told our correspondent that the manager, desk officer and receptionist of the motel had been arrested. Omoni explained that they were taken to the station so that they could give vital information to the police to help in the ongoing investigation. He said, “For now, what the CP said is that we should preserve the place pending when the police will take action. The place is a motel in Rumuola. “Only the desk officer, the receptionist and the manager of the motel are with us. They just came to make a statement to us. They should be able to help us with information that will lead to the arrest of the suspect.” He, however, added that the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Mustapha Dandaura, would speak on the matter today (Tuesday). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 