The All Progressives Congress in Bauchi State says Governor Bala Mohammed achieved nothing within his first 100 days in office. The Publicity Secretary of the Bauchi APC, Adamu Jallah, in a statement on Sunday, alleged that the March 9 governorship election in the state was “mischievously” declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission to “suspiciously favour” the Peoples Democratic Party. Jallah added that the PDP was facing a tough task of convincing the electorate through service delivery that it truly won the election. He said, “Whatever chances Senator Bala Mohammed and his cohorts think they have have been completely eroded by a mounting catalogue of unfulfilled promises, controversies and cases of selfishness that have allegedly been the signpost of his stewardship as the FCT Minister and now transferred to Bauchi. “In his 100 days in power, he tactlessly attracted enemies on major fronts such as his tactless approach to the issue of Bauchi State House of Assembly leadership and the manner he is systematically frustrating most senior stakeholders of the Bauchi State Greater Project, opposition chieftains and a considerable chunk of the elite for myopic reasons.” The APC alleged that the only people who could boast of benefitting from Mohammed’s government were members of his family, who were allegedly the main contractors handling fuel supplies and occupying strategic political offices in his administration. The APC urged the governor to resign if he could not live up to his campaign promises, saying he lacked focus, seriousness and the zeal to perform. It added, “Since his inauguration on May 29, 2019, the governor has demonstrated a lack of focus, seriousness, and zeal to perform. He believes in dishing out rhetoric and fanning egocentrism rather than performance. “Sincerely, we cannot score Governor Bala Mohammed more than 20 per cent. This implies that his 100 days in office has been nothing but a waste. The only people who are satisfied with his performance are the PDP and their leaders.” Efforts to get a reaction from the Bauchi State Government were unsuccessful. The Senior Special Assistant on Media to the Bauchi State Governor, Mukhtar Gidado, did not pick calls put through to his line and had yet to return them as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 