Etim Ekpimah Residents of the Bayeku community in the Ikorodu Local Government Area of Lagos State, on Thursday, protested against the alleged illegal dredging of sand in the area by Renecon Nigeria Limited. They alleged that the managing director of the firm, Anthony Badamosi, fraudulently obtained a cadastre licence from the Federal Government without the consent of the community. Some of the protesting residents carried placards with various descriptions such as, ‘We don’t want Renecon in Bayeku and environs’, ‘The consent letter attached to his application was issued by Renecon Limited to Renecon Limited and signed by its managing director, Mr Anthony Badamosi’, and ‘Mr Anthony Badamosi is never a member of the Bayeku community and therefore cannot issue a letter of consent on behalf of the people of Bayeku community for the purpose of dredging sand’. The Baale of Bayeku, Chief Saheed Ajibode, said when the community enquired how Badamosi got the cadastre licence, it was discovered that he obtained it in the name of Oreta Bayeku, which is a different community. Saheed accused Badamosi of using policemen to harass, intimidate and arrest youths from the community. Saheed also alleged that the Renecon boss recruited some men from the community to foment trouble with those opposed to the activities of the dredging firm. “The Managing Director of Renecon Nigeria Limited, Anthony Badamosi, imposed himself on the Bayeku community. He said he obtained a cadastre licence to dredge sand from our water from the Federal Government without the community’s consent. “When we found out how he got the licence, we discovered that he used Oreta Bayeku to get it. Bayeku and Oreta Bayeku are not the same community; they are different communities. We don’t know Badamosi from Adam; he has been using the police to harass and intimidate our boys.” He added that the community had gone to Abuja to see the Director General of the Nigerian Mining Cadastre Office and asked him to revoke the licence. According to him, the Mining/Dredging Act requires an investor to seek the consent of the intended host community before the commencement of such a business. Saheed added, “Nigeria’s Mining Act requires all those willing to invest in a community to have the consent of the community they want to operate in before they can start business. “We want the Federal Government to help us revoke the cadastre licence issued to Renecon Nigeria Limited. “Badamosi is not living in Bayeku; he is not an indigene of Bayeku, neither does he have any property here.” He added that the community had obtained an interim injunction prohibiting Badamosi from carrying out any dredging activity in the area till the matter in court was resolved, noting that the violation of the injunction would amount to contempt of the court. Some elders in the community, who spoke with our correspondent on the issue, including the 87-year-old Kadiri Bello and 90-year-old Karimu Tijani, said they would not allow the firm to dredge sand in the community’s water, adding that Badamosi demeaned them by allegedly going through the backdoor to obtain the cadastre licence. Bello stated that the worst part of the matter was that Badamosi had asked about 12 other dredging firms to stop dredging since his firm was the only one licensed by the Federal Government to dredge in the area. However, a splinter group group from the Ajibode family asked Renecon to remain in the community since its presence would bring development to the area. Members of the group, who staged a counter protest, carried placards with inscriptions such as, ‘We want Renecon in Bayeku’, and ‘We, the family of Onire Ajibode, don’t want illegal dredgers in Bayeku’, among others. Eighty-five-year-old Ismaila Odujo, said the community had been battling with 12 illegal dredgers for the past 10 years, who had not brought development to the community. “Since the illegal dredgers have been doing business here for more than 10 years without concomitant development, we don’t want them on our land again. We want dredgers like Renecon, who are ready to do our biddings,” he stated. When contacted, Badamosi said he had nothing to say and directed our correspondent to a member of the Ajibode family, Prince Adewale Ajibode, who told PUNCH Metro that Renecon was the only licensed dredger that residents want in the community. “We don’t want illegal dredgers in our community. We only recognise Renecon. Many people have died in the water without compensation. This was how the problem started in the Niger Delta. We don’t want our community to be hijacked by a group of individuals. Please save our souls,” Adewale stated. A legal adviser to the company, Ademola Awolabi, said any aggrieved party should go to court, adding that his principal had fully satisfied the requirements of the Federal Government by obtaining a dredging licence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 