Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe An underage boy, Hamed Gilani, on Wednesday, stated that he escaped to Lagos from a neighbouring state and joined miscreants in the Oshodi area after his parents separated. Gilani, who was among the 71 miscreants arrested by the operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on the Environment and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit during an early morning raid, said he was introduced to Indian hemp smoking when he started sleeping under the bridge at Oshodi. “I ran to Lagos after my parents separated. I came to Oshodi, where I ran errands for the older miscreants, and I was lured into smoking Indian hemp when I started sleeping among them under the bridge at Oshodi,” he stated. PUNCH Metro learnt that the 11-year-old had been transferred to the Lagos State Correctional Centre for proper rehabilitation. The task force noted that it arrested 71 miscreants operating in notorious black spots around the railway line in the Oshodi area. According to the Chairman of the agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, the raid was in line with the determination of the task force to curtail the activities of hoodlums, who dispossess unsuspecting members of the public of their belongings. Egbeyemi, who noted that the agency would continuously raid identified black spots, said some of the suspects were in possession of illegal substances such as codeine, skunk and tramadol. He stated, “Lagos State is the most populous in Nigeria as well as its economic heartbeat. As such, the state government is committed to providing a conducive environment for both local and foreign investors by getting rid of miscreants in the state. “Thirteen suspects were released after a thorough screening and the underage male among them was transferred to the Lagos State Correctional Centre for proper rehabilitation.” One of the miscreants, Suraju Ademola, who stated that he had been sleeping under the bridge at Oshodi for over seven months, confessed to being a member of the gang, who had been attacking and dispossessing innocent members of the public of their valuables in the area. According to Egbeyemi, the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has directed that the raid must be a continuous exercise in line with the state government’s policy of ending the activities of miscreants and cultists, who are disturbing innocent residents. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 