Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, said on Monday that his administration had expended N4 billion to boost school enrolment since October last year when he assumed office for a second term. Fayemi said the fact that Ekiti ranked least among the six South-West States in terms of school enrolment in 2018 propelled him to make several interventions to tackle the increasing out-of-school syndrome in the state. The governor, who spoke at Holy Trinity Primary School, Ilawe Ekiti while inaugurating the enrolment of pupils for 2019/2020 academic session, said Ekiti, which ranked first on school enrolment list during his first administration, had slumped due to the N1000 per term tax policy introduced by the immediate past administration. He said, “Ekiti was leading in school enrolment before I left in 2014, but our enrolment has dropped drastically. Introduction of education tax and other anti-people policies introduced by the immediate past government have seriously eroded our gains in the education sector. “We introduced many policies to boost school enrolment in our first term and we had 96 per cent being the highest in the country and Southwest region. “Upon assumption of office last year October, we immediately outlawed the payment for of tax in public and private schools. We also paid N4billion as 2016, 2017 and 2018 counterpart funds to UBEC, embarked on the rehabilitation of infrastructure, provision of furniture and instructional materials, introduced school feeding programme, payment of salary to teachers among others as part of ways to increase school enrolment and retain other gains in the education sector”. Fayemi, who said available statistics showed that Nigeria had a high number out-of-school children globally, said that as part of efforts to reduce the scourge in Ekiti, his government would enforce the Child’s Rights Law and Universal Basic Education Commission Law  “to ensure that pupils have access to basic education.” The governor also said that his government had entered into a special partnership with World Bank to increase girl child education in Ekiti. The governor also assured that the ongoing recruitment of teachers into primary schools would be transparent and merit-based. The Chairman, Ekiti State Universal Basic Education Board, Prof. Francisca Aladejana, said apart from procurement of necessary infrastructure by government, SUBEB had also been engaging parents and guardians across communities on the need to place premium interest on the education of their children and wards.