A trending video on social media has shown the moments, some staff members of a power distribution company, were threatened by a man, wielding a gun and a machete. In the video, which was shared on a Twitter user, Daddy’s @kike_lomo, the disco workers were reportedly from the Ikeja Electricity Company and the incident had happened on Fatai Animashaun Street, Magodo on a yet-to-be-confirmed date. The man, wielding the weapons had refused to allow the disco workers to work on his meter, saying that there was nothing wrong with it. The video started from afar before the person holding the camera moved closer to the scene of the altercation. READ ALSO: Why I handed over the treasury to women —Buhari See transcript of the video below: Voice behind the video, says, “He doesn’t he know that the person he’s talking to is the son of a major general. Who is he?” “You say, you will cut my meter? Are you mad?  Am I owing?  I pay.  I have a lot of credit,” the man wielding the weapons says, waving the gun behind him. “I’m still paying. Other people won’t allow you to enter. I’m the only one, who allowed you to enter because I’m not doing anything wrong. Go to other places, will they open the gate for you? Some would set dogs on you. You want to cut my meter, try it again,” he says, as he walks away. Moving away from the camera, he (gun-wielding man) showed a woman in front of him some documents saying “I just brought this yesterday from the bank, I’m going to take it to NEPA.  I didn’t bypass anything. If you want to check, you can come and check, you don’t do anything on my meter.” A voice behind the camera said, “Sir, we are here to recertify the meter.” “Somebody came here on the 22nd and certified it, he said, moving towards the camera,” he replies. At least two people from the behind the camera tried explaining the situation. One of them said, “Sir, your meter is not sealed. Now, this is the seal from the company. To show that your meter is working okay.” He says “It is okay.” They said, “That is why, we have to seal it. He said, “Don’t tell me whether it is okay.  I bought this meter since 2004. Is it today that it is not going to be okay? Since 2004, is today, you want to tell me, it is not going to be okay.” See video: 