Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation will sack depot and areas managers involved in underhand dealings in the downstream sector, the oil firm’s Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, has said. Kyari also charged managers of the Nigerian Pipelines and Storage Company to display utmost integrity in the conduct of their daily business in order to fit into the NNPC management’s strategic objective of transparency, accountability and performance excellence. The GMD gave the charge at a retreat organised by the storage division of the NPSC for all depot managers, area managers and field officers drawn from the 21 depots across the country which held in Abuja, according to a statement from the corporation on Wednesday. He said there was no more room for all forms of underhand dealings that were associated with depot operations in the past. Kyari stresses that any personnel linked with any corrupt act would be shown the way out of the corporation without hesitation. He urged them to report any sleazy transaction to their superior and bring same to his attention if their superior officers failed to take any concrete action to stem the act. According to the NNPC boss, the management of the oil firm was ready to reward workers who carried out their duties with distinction. The NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, Adeyemi Adetunji, urged the operations personnel to carry out their duties with the highest level of ethical standards in order to break away from the old perception of the depots as centres of sleaze. The COO reminded them that he had signed a performance bond with the GMD and that the task of fulfilling the terms of the bonds was not just for him but for the entire staff of all the downstream subsidiaries. The Managing Director, NPSC, Luke Anele, urged participants to bare their minds on any issue regarding their various areas of operation, stressing that the retreat was organised to assess the depots. He urged the field officers to be more operationally-minded to reduce downtime and losses occasioned by breakdown of equipment, adding that he was aware that they were working under very challenging environment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com