Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Newspaper vendors in Rivers State temporarily down tools on Thursday following the arrest and detention of one of their colleagues, Yenemi West. West was said to have been arrested on Wednesday by the state Task Force on Street Trading and Illegal Motor Parks for allegedly blocking the pedestrian walkway, while she sold copies of newspapers at the Artillery end of the Port Harcourt-Aba Expressway. The vendor, according to sources, was arraigned before a mobile court and charged with obstructing the task force members from carrying out their duties and engaging in street trading. She was fined N5,000 by the court. However, her remand in police custody by the mobile court infuriated other vendors, who decided not to sell newspapers on Thursday, insisting that they would only resume work after West’s release. The vendors, however, called off their strike when a top official of the state government promised to intervene in the matter. The Vice Chairman of the National Association of Print Media Sales Representatives, Rivers State chapter, Friday Chimaobi, said there was no need for the task force to arrest newspaper vendors. Chimaobi added that West did not block the pedestrian walkway, even as he condemned the destruction of the newspapers she had gathered for sale. “West did not block any road. Her table was before the gutter. The task force members even tore the newspapers that were to be sold by the woman,” he said. The Nigeria Union of Journalists, Rivers State Council, called on the task force to exclude newspaper vendors from the restriction on street trading in the state. The union noted with dismay that the Bright Amaewhule-led task force, which commenced operations two weeks ago, had been harassing newspaper vendors on the streets. A statement signed by its Chairman and Secretary, Job Stanley and Ike Wigodo, respectively, stated that newspaper vendors, going by universal standards, were usually excluded from any form of restrictions on the streets. The NUJ pointed out that in view of the mode of operation of newspaper vendors across the world, they were not supposed to be affected by the ongoing war against street trading and illegal motor parks in the state. The statement said, “All over the world, newspaper vendors are important agents of information dissemination, who cannot be hounded out of the streets. Even though their modus operandi is to hawk newspapers on the streets, they are not roadside traders and so cannot be treated as such. “We are not against the maintenance of law and order in Rivers State. In fact, we welcome any move by the state government to restore sanity and orderliness in the state and return Port Harcourt, in particular, to its Garden City status. “As a professional body made up of decent men and women, the NUJ has always been in the vanguard of speaking against indecency, disorderliness and illegal business transactions on the streets.” The union appealed to the state government, especially the task force, to exclude newspaper vendors from the list of those to be hounded out of the streets. While commending the National Association of Print Media Sales Representatives, Rivers State chapter, for its patience, the NUJ urged its members to be orderly and law-abiding in the course of their operation. When contacted, , the Chairman of the task force, Amaewhule, said nobody was above the law. Amaehwule stated that it was wrong for newspaper vendors to block the road with big umbrellas, adding that anybody that refused to obey the law against street trading would be arrested and prosecuted. On the vendor who was arrested and detained, he explained that he intervened in the matter, adding that West obstructed the work of task force members. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 