Peter Dada, Akure The President of the Christ Apostolic Church, Pastor Abraham Akinosun, has condemned the composition of the Economic Advisory Council by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying there is no need to disband the former National Economic Council led by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. The cleric described the disbandment of Osinbajo’s economic team as unnecessary politicking. The pastor stated this during the annual conference of CAC Pastors on Thursday, held at the Joseph Ayo Babalola International Miracle Camp, Ikeji Arakeji, Osun State. The conference was themed, ‘That the scripture must be fulfilled.’ He emphasised that Buhari should declare an emergency in the nation’s economy. He said, “What would have been a cheering news recently was soiled by unnecessary politicking. The President recently appointed an Economic Advisory Council and purportedly dissolved a constitutionally established National Economic Council headed by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. “It is true that people have been calling for the composition of a strong team of economists to manage the economy, which appeared to be directionless in the first term of the President. But no one expected the President to choose a team that would be unable to implement the decision reached. “For instance, there is no single government official, who is directly in charge of the national economy, among those appointed. The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of National Planning, the Budget office, the Debt Management Office and other relevant agencies are not in the Presidential Economic Council. What this means is that the body is just to meet occasionally to advise the President. We all know that the President is not bound to take advice given to him, let alone implement it.” On the issue of insecurity in the country, Akinosun appealed to Buhari to urgently put measures in place that would end the scourge, stressing that the people of the country were not safe. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  