Adebowale Oparinu, 22, is the co-founder, LifePro Food Mills, where he focuses on business development for the locust beans processing start-up. In this interview with MAUREEN IHUA-MADUENYI,  he shares his experience as an entrepreneur How did you come about the idea of food processing? LifePro started as a team of three young students in search of local African products with potential that can be scaled to aid rural development. It soon grew into a structured company with a unique product known as Hiru. We developed it from a popular West African condiment scientifically known as Parkia Biglobosa with the common name being African locust beans. Sumbala, iru and dawadawa as it is known in various West African communities is a condiment that is widely considered as one of the cheapest sources of vital nutrients but has refused to scale due to inherent limitations such as short shelf life, bad smell, and unhygienic local processing. However, Hiru was developed to overcome all of these limitations by having 12 months shelf-life without additives, dirt and stone free through hygienic processing and has no smell as a result of innovative packaging and dehydration. It has also been innovated into powder and our soon-to-be launched patented bouillon cube form to satisfy different consumer preferences. Most importantly, it is produced through an inclusive model that empowers women in rural communities financially. Market entry is turning out great as we already sell through over 50 outlets including stores and agents across Nigeria and already setting up delivery to over 10 African stores in the US who have all placed orders. How many rural women have you been able to empower through this business and how many people do you employ? We currently work with 10 women in rural communities and we refer to them as our ‘Hiru Champions’. Apart from the core team, we have seven other people working with us in production, packaging and visual communications. How were you able to get funding to start the business? At inception, we enjoyed the support of two amazing organisations— the Platform Nigeria and Premier Hub Innovation Centre. Last year, they both launched competitions where we emerged winners and they supported us with equity free funding. What has been the feedback from your customers? Virtually everyone who has tried the product attests to Hiru’s quality and packaging which gives us a lot of joy because that has been one of our major focus from the beginning— to bring a unique product with amazing quality and branding to the market. But of course, a number of people have reservations and have made it known to us, which we appreciate a lot because such feedback is what allows us to grow as a company. Is locust beans the only product you have or do you plan to incorporate others? We are currently focused on locust beans only, exploring all the different ways it can be applied in everyday use, not just in Africa, but across the world. This is exactly what has prompted us to initiate conversations with manufacturers of spice-mixes and liquid sauces in the US to consider Hiru, being an organic highly-nutritious low-cost ingredient in their recipes and we believe those conversations will yield results because it will bring so much value to their consumers. We are also closely involved with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria. In fact, we had a working group session with them on locust beans less than two weeks. We do all these to ensure consistency in the quality of our products, be it for local or international consumption. What challenges have you faced in the course of doing this business? It took a very long time for our NAFDAC number to be ready and this delayed our placement and market entry plans for several months. But we are glad it is ready now. Food manufacturing, especially locust beans production, requires huge energy and because electricity is not constant, we spend way too much on generating power. What advice do you have for young people like you? The LifePro team is very young— all under 25. But being young has not restricted us from dreaming big and trusting God to achieve all we have set our hearts upon. I want every young Nigerian to not only start dreaming big, but also take big bold steps of faith and start acting on those dreams. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com