Kia Motors and other companies in the Dana Group have partnered Rotary Club of Lagos Island District 9110, Lagos State and Sathya Sai International Organisation of Nigeria on a blood donation camp. According to Kia, the move is aimed at bridging the gap in the demand and supply of blood in the country. The firm stated that this year’s blood donation camp made it the second camp in two years following the success of the 2018 edition. “Aimed at alleviating the blood shortage in the country and in line with Dana’s commitment to contribute to the community in a meaningful way, the partnership with other organisations on the blood donation camp is geared towards saving lives and helping those who are in need of blood in the hospitals,” the firm said in a statement. It added that in the recently conducted blood donation camp, a large pool of employee volunteered to contribute to Rotary club’s call on corporate bodies to provide blood and meet the needs of the country’s population of over 180 million people. “The blood donation drive is to help ensure blood is never missing from hospital shelves and to reduce the surging rise of postpartum hemorrhaging, which is the leading cause of maternal mortality, accounting for over 27 per cent of all maternal deaths in Nigeria,” the firm said. The Chairman, Dana Group, Mr Ramesh Hathiramani, said the partnership with the Rotary Club of Lagos Island District 9110 and Lagos State Blood Transfusion Service on the blood donation programme was consequent upon the group’s increasing efforts to positively impact its host communities. He said, “We foster a framework for collaboration with both organisations and the government to recognise local initiatives that directly impact the lives of the people. As an upright corporate citizen and one that stays true to an unwavering commitment to saving lives, the blood donation camp is rooted in Dana Group’s objective to contribute to the development of society. “We further acknowledge the with Rotary Club of Lagos Island District 9110, Lagos Blood Bank, and the SSION for their dedicated efforts towards the care and treatment of local communities, notably, their work to ensure that blood reserves remain ample and lives continue to be saved.” The President of the Rotary Club of Lagos Island District 9110, Vipul Agrawal, expressed gratitude to the blood donors. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com