Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The National Social Investment Office on Wednesday said that the social intervention funds being managed by it had not been mismanaged. It said since 2016 when the scheme commenced, the funding and disbursement had always been done by the Ministry of Budget and National Planning. In a statement in Abuja, by the Communications Manager, Justice Bibiye, the NSIO said the Office of the Vice President is not involved in the financial transactions or the disbursement of funds for the programme. It said, “The NSIO has continued to prioritise transparency in disbursements. It has also ensured a level-playing field for all the beneficiaries, collated data and verified identities of beneficiaries of the different schemes, through a close collaboration with relevant agencies of government. “All payments on the programmes are transferred directly to beneficiaries from the Federal Government coffers. “The only exception is in relation to the cash transfer programme, basically because the beneficiaries reside in areas where there is a dearth of banking infrastructure. “Being much too poor to travel long distances to receive the monthly N5,000 disbursements, the decision was taken to ensure the funds are conveyed to them at their places of residence.” EFCC denies labelling social programme corrupt The  the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, on Wednesday, said its acting Chairman,  Ibrahim Magu, did not claim that there was corruption  in the National Social Investment Programme. The EFCC, in a statement by its Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, gave further   explanations on the goodwill presentation of the commission’s spokesman at the 15th Anti-Corruption Situation Room in Kaduna on Tuesday. In the statement on Wednesday, the EFCC spokesperson observed that the agency had received complaints in some zones regarding the social investment programmes, citing an example in Gombe where the commission investigated a case in the Anchor Borrower’s Scheme in which sand was bagged and passed off as fertilizer. “This clarification becomes necessary to correct the wrong impression of a verdict of corruption on N-SIP,” he stated. Magu was represented at the event by Uwujaren. We stand by our story –PUNCH The PUNCH has however stated that it stood by its story on Uwujaren’s speech at the Kaduna event on Tuesday. It added that the story was the accurate representation of what the EFCC spokesman said at the event. Below is part of the unedited transcription of Uwujaren’s speech: “If you look at the crises that we have in Nigeria today, you can easily point out corruption as the major factor driving those crises. So, for us at the EFCC, we are determined to ensure that through fighting corruption we are able to bring peace to our people.  And the message that I want to pass to the civil society organisation is to play more active role in tracking, especially issue of social investment schemes and pay attention into how resources are used, because from investigations we carried out across the country, we find out that there is a lot that is going wrong in terms of implementation of the social investment scheme(s). Corruption has crept in. So, we want you to monitor how these are executed so that we don’t create more crises situation from crises situation. We need to ensure that policy circulate down to the people that actually need it. “We have a situation, for instance in the Anchor Borrowers programme, some people who got contract to import fertilizer actually …bagging sand in lieu of fertilizer. For us that was a tragic experience and we don’t want that to continue. So we need to pay more attention to those schemes to ensure that we remove corruption out of such exercises. I can tell you that our experience is not a palatable one. If you look at the NDDC, for instance in the Niger Delta, it was established to draw development to that region but rather than bringing development to the region, it has actually perpetrated poverty in that region because those who should benefit from it are not the beneficiaries, it is the elite that are cornering the wealth that should go to the people. So, we should join hands to remove corruption from the special intervention projects that government from time to time brings for the benefit of our people.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 