Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State rice farmers under the auspices of the Federated FADAMA Rice Association on Wednesday appealed to the federal and state governments to assist them as the flood that occurred few days ago had washed away their rice plantations. The rice plantations affected are located in Eleyowo and Ogbese towns in the Akure North Local Government, Uso in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State and some other places. The farmers disclosed that the flood, which occurred as a result of torrential rainfall, destroyed over 600 hectares of rice farms in the state. The group coordinator, Pastor Olayinka Labiran, lamented that such incident had never happened to the members of the association since they started rice farming in the flood-ravaged areas. He added that the washed away rice farms were expected to be harvested in October. According to him, about 373 rice farmers pooled their resources together to cultivate the farm with each having at least one hectare of land after they obtained loans from the Bank of Agriculture under the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers Scheme. Labiran said, “We are in the state of mourning because of the loss the flood had caused us.” The rice farmer said there was no hope to salvage the rice because the farm had been completely submerged. He called on the state and federal governments as well as insurance companies to help the affected farmers. Another member of the group, Mr Oluwafemi Ibikunle, revealed that he had lost over 4,000 tonnes of rice due to the flood. He called on the intervention agencies and non-governmental organisations to come to their aid, saying they secured loan to invest in rice production so that they could key into the Federal Government’s rice policy. Govt to demolish houses along waterways Meanwhile, the Ondo State Government on Wednesday said it would begin the demolition of buildings along the waterways across the state. This came following the flood incident that ravaged Ogbese and Alade Idanre towns in Akure North Local Government and Idanre Local Government Areas of the state, respectively. Many buildings were submerged by the flood which happened between Sunday and Monday this week. READ ALSO: Kidnapped CMD released, doctors resume work The acting governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi, made the declaration after inspecting flood-ravaged areas in Idanre LGA. He said, “We thank God no life was lost. Flood that is not much like this had killed many people, but we thank God such did not happen in Idanre. We have inspected the houses; I will advise that our people should leave the affected houses to prevent another disaster. “Some people built houses along the river course, we will ensure that no matter how highly placed those persons are, we will demolish their houses to have a free flow of water.” Ajayi also promised that amphibious excavator would be deployed to help channel the waterways in the town. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com