Opeyemi Sowore, the wife of the detained presidential candidate of the African Action Congres, Omoyele Sowore, has spoken out against the continued detention of her husband by the Department of State Services. Mrs Sowore said that the Nigerian government has found no evidence against him, hence, no grounds for his continued detention. She said this during an interview on a US television show, Democracy Now!, video of which was shared on their YouTube channel. Mrs. Sowore said, “There are no formal charges per se. He’s being investigated, so the courts gave the Nigerian government or the DSS the ability to hold him for 45 days to investigate — treason, possible treason and terrorism. They based it upon a meeting that he had with Nnamdi Kanu, who has an organization around Biafra. He met with him. Yele made it public. In fact, he disagrees with some of Nnamdi’s rhetoric, but he met with him. And Yele’s whole thing is bringing in everybody’s voices so that Nigeria can be a country for pretty much all of its citizens. So, that’s one of the things that they mentioned against them. READ ALSO: Xenophobia: South Africa High Commission shuts down “They also mentioned he may have taken money from international countries, and he met them in Dubai. He has never been to Dubai before, which was an interesting statement on the Nigerian government’s part. And no money, basically, has been found with him. So, those were some of the things that they’ve mentioned and associated with him, but they basically have no grounds for holding him and haven’t found any evidence.” During the interview, Mrs Sowore revealed how her husband was taken and detained by the DSS. She also said she had been able to talk to him only twice since his incarceration. She said, “It was Friday night here, Saturday in Nigeria, I got a text from him saying, “I love you.” And I’m like, “OK, great. I love you, too.” But his cousin started calling me over and over about an hour after that and told me that he had been detained. And for four days — or, three days, we did not have any contact with him. We didn’t know where he was. He was taken by force at his hotel in Lagos and transported to Abuja and of course, he didn’t eat their food, didn’t drink their water for all those days. “He was basically in isolation with no food, no water. But then, on the Tuesday after, he was able to get in touch with his lawyer, as well as they allowed people to come in to provide him with food. But since then, he’s basically been in isolation for over a month, being held in Abuja with basically no outlets. He’s basically locked in a room, for the most part.” 