President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in Abuja said Nigerians eagerly look forward to investments in infrastructure, especially the power sector, that will illuminate their homes and stimulate businesses. The President, who spoke when the German Ambassador to Nigeria, Birgitt Ory, presented her Letter of Credence to him, said the government will honour terms of agreements should German companies invest in the country. According to an Instagram post signed by Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity), Femi Adesina, and posted by Buhari Sallau, a presidential aide, the President said the agreements signed with Germany company, Siemens, on power, was most welcome for the country, adding that Nigeria looks forward to partnerships that will be mutually beneficial. Buhari said the country remains grateful to Germany for humanitarian interventions in the North East for the Internally Displaced Persons, and the visit of the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, to Nigeria in August 2018, which further strengthened bi-lateral relations. In her remarks, the Ambassador said it was a great privilege to serve in Nigeria, which had always been her aspiration. She described the country as “the biggest and most important country in Africa. “When I came to Nigeria last year in May, which was also my first time in Africa, as soon as I stepped out of the plane, I said this is where I will like to work,’’ she said. Ambassador Ory congratulated Nigeria for holding two key positions in the United Nations — Deputy Secretary General, Amina Mohammed; and President of the UN General Assembly, Prof. Tijani Mohammad-Bande, saying the country’s rising global profile reflects its pivotal role in Africa and West African region. The German envoy assured the President that she will work towards improved relations between both countries, commending him for Nigeria’s role in ECOWAS, with renewed focus on economy and security. President Buhari, who also received Letters of Credence from the Ambassador of Ethiopia, Azanaw Tadesse Abreha, encouraged diplomats to stay longer in the country in order to understand the dynamics of the culture, economy and landscape, noting that “Nigeria is big and versatile and requires longer period of stay to be understood.’’