Ife Ogunfuwa Nigerians continue to experience declined transactions on the Point of Sales terminals all over the country as failed PoS transactions hit 323,663 on Thursday evening. Live transaction updates obtained from the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System showed that payments on the PoS terminals had a high failure rate of 25.49 per cent out of a total of 1,269,761 transactions conducted as of 6.16pm. Based on NIBSS’ data, it took an average of 67 seconds for banks to process a PoS transaction. According to the data, the issuer bank contributed the most to the failure of the transactions as 107,737 of the failed transaction was attributed to errors they committed. The live updates indicated that errors committed by customers also caused some of the unsuccessful transactions at 101,846 as of 6.21pm on Thursday. The statistics indicated that 75,805 errors emanated from the acquirer bank and contributed significantly to the failed funds transfer carried out by retailers and merchants across the country. However, the updates showed that the NIBSS platform and security breach had not in any way contributed to the unsuccessful payments while the processors errors contributed minimally at 0.14 per cent. Meanwhile, bank customers carried out over three million transactions on NIBSS Instant Pay platform on Thursday, the live updates showed. NIP, which is an online real-time product that facilitates instant digital payment of bills on an account, hit exactly 3,038,734 transactions and a high success rate of 99.5 per cent as of 6.35pm on Thursday. Most of the unsuccessfully funds transfer was as a result of unavailable beneficiary bank, which contributed to 6,723 failed transactions out of 14,241 unsuccessful payments. Other reasons for failed NIP transactions, according to the data, are account name mismatch, transfer limit exceeded and system malfunction, among others. NIBSS in April said measures had been taken to ensure efficiency in the electronic payment system and achieve shorter transaction time. The acting Managing Director, NIBSS, Mr Niyi Ajao, had said the total turn-around time had been configured at 15 seconds in agreement with banks and processors. Ajao explained that the timeout was the total turn-around time for a PoS transaction cycle from the time it was received to the time a response was sent back. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 