Rasheed Bisiriyu and Armstrong Bakam More visitors are expected at the Yankari Game Reserve in Bauchi State before the end of the year as the managers of the first West African game reserve are reportedly intensifying efforts to improve some of its facilities and side attractions. This is coming as tourists relayed their recent experiences of the reserve and marveled at the exciting Wikki Warm Spring, with crystal clear water from a natural source and its constant temperature even with change in weather. Notwithstanding the Boko Haram scare with other forms of insecurity in that area of the country, a report which the management said was being exaggerated, at least 50,000 visitors are targeted to eperience the new Yankari Game Reserve. The 50,000 targeted visitors, according to the Acting General Manager, Yankari Game Reserve, Mohammed Ladan, is about 71 per cent of the number of tourists that visited the reserve last year. He recalled that in 2017, “we had 20,152 tourists’ influx into Yankari but there was an increase in the year 2018 whereby it increased to 29,215 visitors. “For this year, we don’t have any record yet since the year hasn’t ended, but we are projecting to reach 50,000 because of the new publicity approach we have adopted, using the social media.” Established in 1956 as a premier game reserve in West Africa, Yankari Game Reserve has a total conservation area of 2, 244.10 square kilometres with about 50 different species of mammals with over 350 different species of bird species that is the Avifauna species. It has seven different species of amphibians and about 18 different species of reptiles in the reserve and over 350 plant varieties. Although Ladan disclosed there were five springs at the game reserve, only the Wikki Warm Spring had been developed. “It maintains a constant temperature of 31°C; it is exceptionally beautiful. You can swim there throughout the day without noticing that you spent hours there. “Apart from the Wikki Warm Spring, we have others that have not yet been developed such as the Dimil, Maullugu, Tungan Maliki and Gwana Warm Spring. Tungan Maliki is a cold spring while the other four are warm springs. The one that has the highest temperature is Dimil Warm Spring, it maintains a constant temperature of 35°C all year round. “One unique thing with those springs is that they maintain the volume of flow of water into it whether it is rainy season or when it is dry season.” He also spoke about the government intervention in renovating the Wiki Warm Spring, the purchase of a standby generator for constant electricity supply and adequate security provided by joint security forces made up of soldiers, forest rangers, the police, the DSS, Immigration and the Civil Defence. Our experiences – Visitors Anago James Ake, from Lagos State, gave his impression of the place after a visit in October 2018 and this was captured by TripAdvisor in a report thus: “Amazing is the word to describe this natural haven. The travel was worth it. The apartments were great with comfort and the architectural design of the Deluxe type of accommodation. “This place will remind you of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Namibian safari. The following morning, I was awakened by special visitors. I came out and near my door were two hedgehogs. The animals move freely and are used to seeing people. Huge baboons too; these animals usually go around in twos. The thought of wild animals like the lion and tigers came up on my mind but the administrator told us that their habitat was far away from where we were and that they do not appreciate noise like people’s voices and movements and the sound of music coming from the restaurant. The warm spring is another marvel. During the ride around the game reserve, it was spectacular to see animals run freely in the wild. The visit to the palace of the emir was historical with beautiful murals on the palace walls; traditional dresses and turbans by the men. It was great to be in Bauchi, the Yankari: home of tourism.” Another visitor, Chijuoke O, who also visited the place in September last year, described the reserve as “a great place to be for holidays and pleasure. The rooms are spacious and quite cozy. You will definitely enjoy the ride on a tour of the forest to see (wild) animals. “Another place you shouldn’t miss is a swim in the famous Wikki Warm Spring with crystal clear water from a natural source; most importantly is the temperature of the water that remains constant even with the change in weather.” He also said it was an ideal place for the occasional switch-off and commended its staff “for their hospitality and efforts at making guests feel at home in a natural environment. It’s a great place to retire to occasionally from all the hustle and bustle of city life or work.” But another guest at the reserve in April this year, who gave his identity simply as gouthamm37, felt only the warm spring left an inspiring impression on him. “The only thing that was good was the warm spring. The electricity supply was terrible and the room conditions were also very bad. The jeep we used for the safari drive was very bad as it broke down and we got stuck in the middle of the jungle,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 