Rasheed Bisiriyu The Ogun State Government is discussing with some notable manufacturing firms on how to improve infrastructural facilities in the state including road network to speed up its industrial revolution. The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who disclosed this on Tuesday, also said his administration’s policies would improve the prosperity of hardworking individuals and companies. He spoke through his deputy, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele in Ota at the 40th celebration of Honda Manufacturing Nigeria Limited. “We know that industrialisation is the best way to improve prosperity. The Ogun State Government is working with manufacturers to make sure that the challenges that they have experienced in the past are sorted out and to make sure that in future what they have been doing to date is improved upon.” According to him, the policies of the state government will make it easy for companies to operate efficiently, especially by improving facilities in the existing industrial areas of Ota, Agbara and Sagamu. The governor identified one of the biggest problems facing industries in the state as road network, especially getting in and out of Ota-Agbara to other places, adding that the state government was working on it. He said, “The governor has risen up to the challenge. And he is working hand-in-hand with the Lagos State Government to make sure that we come up with solutions to make access to industries much easier and make life easier for manufacturers. “And as the policies evolve, you will start to see the impact and the benefit to the whole community and also on your particular businesses.” The governor congratulated the company for rolling out its one millionth motorcycle to mark its 40 years and standing firm over the years. The Managing Director of the company, Katsuhiro Murooka, said Honda had created hundreds of jobs since inception . He said the manufacturing company would continue to provide value through its products and services and enhance the lives of Nigerians as well as boost the economy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 