Justin Tyopuusu, Jalingo The Clerk of the Taraba State House of Assembly, Mr Orngu Mellah, on Thursday threatened legal action against one Tsokwa Fwaje Jezreel, who in a Facebook post on Sunday, claimed he (Clerk) hosted a meeting of Tiv Elite in Jalingo to re-strategise in the Tiv/Jukun crisis. Mellah, in a statement issued in Jalingo, said the post made by Jezreel was defamatory in nature and called on him to retract the publication and tender an unreserved apology within seven days published in two national dailies. “On September 1, 2019, one Mr. Tsokwa Fwaje Jezreel posted on his Facebook wall that I, Mr Orngu Mellah, hosted a Tiv Elite meeting in my house in Jalingo to re-strategise in the Jukun/Tiv crisis. “I wish to state categorically that I do not belong to any such group called ‘Tiv Elite’ as claimed in the Facebook post and I did not hold such meeting. “On the said date, my neighbour, Mr Timothy Riba, whose residence is directly opposite my house, hosted a meeting in his house where those who attended the meeting parked their vehicles on the street that separates our houses. “Pictures of the cars in the post were that of those who attended the meeting in my neighbour’s house. “The post clearly exposes evil intent and malice nursed against me by Tsokwa Fwaje Jezreel, I therefore call on him to retract the publication. “The publication clearly intended to blackmail me and cause mischief on my reputation and career as a civil servant and particularly as the Clerk of the Taraba State House of Assembly. “Mr Jezreel should retract the publication on all platforms and tender an unreserved apology to me within seven days and same published in two national dailies.” READ ALSO: Oshoala thrills guys with new hairstyle The clerk, who lamented the damage the post had caused on his person, noted that the publication had attracted a lot of negative comments against him and his office. The printed Facebook post of Mr. Tsokwa Fwaje Jezreel which was attached to the press statement read; “Re-strategising? Tiv Elites hold emergency meeting in Orngu Mellah’s residence in Jalingo. “It will interest you to know that Orngu Mellah is Taraba State House of Assembly clerk,” the post read. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 