President and Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management, Wale Adediran, tells Anna Okon why the institute has decided to start penalising organisations that employ quacks as human resources managers If human resource management requires the input of professionals, how do you handle cases where non-professionals occupy human resource management positions? What we have been doing in the past few years is to appeal to such people and their organisations to regularise their status. For some of them they might have had the necessary education and training, it is just for them to subject themselves to the scrutiny of the institute for their certification to be procured. Many of them also probably do not have the necessary education and skillset to play the role that they purportedly play. We have challenged organisations and educated them about the need for their human resource functions to be handled by professionals and not quacks. Unfortunately, some of them have not keyed into that opportunity. But fortunately, we have quite a large number of non-professionals who have since upgraded themselves and we have inducted thousands of such into human resource management practice in Nigeria. But for those who have not heeded the consistent warning and invitation for them to properly align themselves with the law, we are going to take the next step to fully apply the weight of the law to bear on them. We will not hesitate to stop the unwholesome trend because of the huge impact it has been having on the economy of the country, on the wellbeing of the people and our commercial and industrial sector. What is the plan to sanction the erring operators? As we speak today, the number one challenge that we face as an industry in regards to our commercial, industrial and even social sector, is finding the right talent to drive the visions of the various businesses and Chief Executive Officers. Employability is a big challenge for us and it starts with human resource management. We have managed them over the years through collaboration and appeal to those who are willing to step up their game and professionalise. Even some state governments have collaborated with us in that respect. Lagos State is a very good example and recently Ogun State. We are talking to Akwa Ibom, Ekiti and a few other states. If the government at different levels can comply with the law, nothing stops us from ensuring that every other entity in the country fully complies with the law in the interest of the growth of our commercial, industrial and social sectors. What role does CIPM play in human resource management? The CIPM is the body that is empowered by law to regulate the practice of human resource management in the country and define a standard for managing people and ensuring that we have the capability to manage people and human resource management in all its ramification is properly regulated. So we have only professionals handling such a critical and sensitive job that definitely has mainly impact on commercial, industrial and social activities in the country. What difference does being a qualified HR practitioner make to an organistaion? There is a huge difference. In actual fact if you meet the heads of a parastatal or company in Nigeria and anywhere else in the world and ask them what they consider to be their most important competitive edge or the most valued asset that they have, the response you will get from almost all of them is ‘our people.’ So, our people are our most – valued asset is not just a slogan, it is a reality. If people therefore are the most important asset of an organisation or a commercial concern, or ministry, department and agency, then they have to be managed by those who have been properly trained and certified to be qualified to manage that asset. The most valued asset of an entity cannot be toyed with. So if you have a proper professional as human resource practitioner managing your most important asset, the people, the talents in the organisation, it is going to make a huge difference compared to a quack who has no foundational training, skill, and has not been certified to be competent to play the role of managing the value chain. The HR value chain is not just about hiring and firing, it is about ensuring that the right culture, the right processes, standards, policy and framework are put in place to empower managers to do their job, to empower employees to play their role and for productivity to be at the optimum that you can achieve in such an environment. So there is a big difference between having someone that is not trained and qualified and someone that is trained and qualified and it starts from even the hiring process. Early last year, we had a government entity advertising a job role and already discriminating and stereotyping from the advertisement, stating that certain people were not qualified to apply for the role, whereas the set of skills, the educational requirement, the exposure and the strength requirement that the role required had nothing to do with the prejudicial and stereotyped thinking that were revealed in the advertorial. We had to step in and ensure the error was corrected. These are the kinds of issues you have when you don’t have qualified professionals managing this most important asset of greatest value of the organisation. We have cases of harassment including sexual harassment; we have had cases of non -compliance with the labour laws. We still have quacks who are practicing in ways that contravened the labour laws in terms of vacation allowance, maternity leave not being permitted, employing women and telling them ‘look you cannot get married within a particular time frame, you cannot have children within a particular time frame and so on and so forth.’ You see cases of quacks that are conducting themselves in a manner that embarrasses the profession and people do not know the difference, once the person has the title, they believe the person is a professional whereas the truth is that most of these people are not supposed to be there. That is why from now on the step we are going to take will ensure that we apply the full weight of the law. Whoever is not certified to practice according to the law can find himself or herself in jail. That is the position of the law. There are fines that are already prescribed in the law as sanctions including jail terms. So we will ensure the full implementation of the law. The common practice in Nigeria is that people secure jobs through the influence of others without being qualified, then when the person is given a particular job, they are unable to execute the job. How do you deal with that? We are more than able to deal with that. That’s why I said the institute will implement the full weight of the law. First of all, we will define standards for practising human resource in the country. There are countries in the world where you cannot appoint people to roles without following certain procedures. There are requirements for advertising positions, requirements for interview process, there are requirements for feedback to an applicant even when the answer is ‘no’ there are requirements and standards for treatment of applicants. You do not have space for discrimination; you do not have space for preferential treatment. You treat people purely on the basis of merit. These are standards that CIPM will define for human resource practitioners in Nigeria. Last year, we launched the first four of such standards. The standards were developed in collaboration with ISO and our own local Nigerian Institute for Standardisation. These standards are coming and they will come faster now. We will define the standard which is that you have to know and fully comply with the standards to be a professional and secondly, you cannot be in role unless you are a professional. The standards will spell out the full requirement and expectation regarding recruitment, development, engagement, retention and reward of talent and there is going to be a lot of transparency in the process that will give some rights to applicants. We will hold people against these standards, without complying with them, you cannot practice in this country. All members of CIPM who are human resource practitioners have license to practice. Any practitioner that does not have a licence to practice is not allowed to practice and if they do, they are contravening the law and they are quacks. What we are doing is to get all our members to get all our members to update their licences. Once that is achieved, we will now apply the weight of the law on culprits. Why this is important is that we have five codes of ethics of conduct for our professionals and the fifth one says that if the demand of your job role is conflicting with the code of ethics of our profession, that you will consider all options to ensure that you fully comply with our code of ethics and that consideration includes resignation where it so demands. In other words, if you have an employer that is not allowing you to practice in line with our codes of ethics and conduct, then you will resign. And we already put in machinery to support our members and professionals who may find themselves in such situations. We are working on practitioners’ insurance cover, so that their income will be covered for e period of time for them to resettle in another job if they find themselves with an employer whose demand challenges them to resign in order to fully comply with our code. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 