Enyioha Opara, Minna One of three suspected armed robbers, who killed one Yakubu Yakubu, and dispossessed him of his vehicle, has said the victim was killed to conceal evidence of the crime. The suspect, Ahmed Abubakar, in an interview with Northern City News in police custody on Tuesday, gave gory details of the crime. He explained that the whole operation took barely 30 minutes and that they had to kill the victim to avoid being caught. “When we are on an operation, we usually intimidate drivers that we board their vehicles by telling them that we are military personnel from the Shadawanka barracks in Bauchi State to create fear in them and make them obey us,” Abubakar said. For this particular incident, he said, “While in transit on the BirinKudu-Huguma Road in Jigawa State, we ordered the driver to stop for us to urinate. When he stopped and we alighted from the vehicle, we strangled him and zoomed off with the vehicle.” Abubakar, who hails from Bauchi State, also told our correspondent that each time his gang wanted to disposes people of their vehicles, they usually charter the vehicle to avoid interference on the way. “On that very day, we chartered a Golf 3 car with number plate, JJJ 247 AX, and on our way, we killed the driver, but luck ran against us when we could not sell the car until the police arrested us,” he explained. In response to a question on how long he had been involved in the crime, he said the gang had been active for over two years and described the situation he nowfound himself as “unfortunate.” Abubakar lamented that he had disappointed his parents, who were not aware of his whereabouts, and prayed that they would forgive him. READ ALSO: Controversy hits invasion of Umahi’s Abuja home The command’s Public Relations Officer, Muhammad Abubakar, who confirmed the incident, said a team of policemen from the GRA Division, Minna, apprehended the suspects following a tip-off. He confirmed that the suspects were arrested while trying to sell the stolen vehicle in Niger State. The police spokesman promised that the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations were concluded. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com