Deji Lambo Neighbours of Navy Commodore Oluwayemisi Ogundana, whose dismembered body was  recently found inside a well in the Ungwan-Loya village, near the military cantonment in the Jaji area of Kaduna State, have said that members of her family have not been spotted at her place of residence in Lagos since her death became public knowledge. The neighbours spoke to PUNCH Metro on Thursday during a visit to the commodore’s place of residence on Ezeoba Drive, Commanders’ Quarters, Navy Town, Lagos State. One of the neighbours, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said she saw Oluwayemisi and her children three weeks ago, adding that neighbours had been unable to pay the bereaved family condolence visits because the house had been under lock and key. The neighbour said, “I saw her obituary on Facebook and that was how I got know of her death. But no one has seen her family members. Oluwayemisi’s husband is not around and the children are also not around. In fact, their residence has been under lock and key and neighbours have not been able to pay them condolence visits. “I saw the woman about three weeks ago when she came home to look after  her children before the end of the third-term holiday. She got killed after she left for her place of assignment in Kaduna. She had three children, a boy and two girls, and they attend the Nigerian Navy Secondary School.” Another neighbour, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the circumstances of her death could be linked to the family’s disappearance. The neighbour stated, “I believe that the reason they are not around may be because of what happened. The children are in boarding school because both Oluwayemisi and her husband were hardly around. “But whenever the children were around, I used to see Oluwayemisi at home, but I have not seen her husband since she died.” Before Oluwayemisi’s death, PUNCH Metro learnt that she was the Commandant of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College’s Secondary School in the Jaji area of Kaduna State. The commodore, who was said to have suddenly disappeared for four days, was declared missing when efforts to locate her whereabouts proved abortive. In a bid to find her, it was learnt that a search and rescue operation was launched and investigation led to the arrest of some suspects, who led the investigators to where her decomposing body was recovered. The suspects reportedly confessed to the crime. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  