Ted Odogwu, Kano There is a plan to dethrone the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, if he declines to swap positions with the Emir of Bichi, a Kano group, Renaissance Coalition, has alleged. In a press statement on Thursday by the spokesman for the group, Ibrahim Waiyaon, the group said the “evil plan from the Kano State Government is meant to” replace Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II, with his Bichi counterpart, Alhaji Nnasiru Ado-Bayero. The statement read in part, “It has come to the notice of the Renaissance Coalition that the Kano State Government has a plan to send the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, to Bichi; and in the event he resists, he will be deposed. The group claimed that the Kano State Government was making the move despite a subsisting court ruling which ordered the maintenance of status quo pending conclusion of the matter before it. According to the statement, the coalition decided to be proactive because of the consequences of the alleged action of the government on the people of Kano State. “We strongly call on the governor to desist from going on with this alleged plot and such similar actions, which are capable of jeopardising the relative peace being enjoyed in the state,” the group said. It called on security agencies, political leaders and leaders and any person with the means; to advise the governor to desist from such an  act. The group said, ‘’However, in the event that the governor refuses to heed the good counsel and goes ahead to actualise the dastardly agenda, we will be left with no other option than to call on the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in Kano State. ‘’ All efforts to contact Governor Abduallahi Umar Ganduje’s Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwa, for his reaction failed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 