Chima Azuibike Gombe State Governor Inuwa Yahaya’s performance in his  first 100  days in office has drawn mixed reactions. In an interview with our correspondent, the  Secretary of the   Peoples Democratic Party in the state, Buba Shanu, said the party was not impressed by Yahaya’s performance. Also, the state Coordinator  of the  Civil Society  for HIV/AIDS in Nigeria, Mr Bachama Yusuf,  said the governor had not performed. He said,  “There is a very huge gap between the governor’s promises and current reality. You cannot mention any  projects  on  the ground targeting the people that is initiated by the current administration. In the educational sector  the governor has been at the level of thinking, contemplation and reviewing. There is no fundamental action taken by the governor concerning education. Water supply seems to have improved, that is really commendable. We are looking forward to a strategic plan towards steady water supply. The governor should focus on development and not waste so much time dwelling on the past because the present is very important. He should work towards  securing  the future of  the people of Gombe State. I want to congratulate him but the administration can do  better than what it has done so far. There is so much expectation. “When (former governor Ibrahim) Dankwambo came, he faced  challenges. Dankwambo inherited debts from (ex-governor Danjuma) Goje, and I’m  not sure he dwelt on it. Governor Inuwa should take us to the next level.” However,  an  All Progressives Congress leader in the state, Abdullahi Jalo, insisted Yahaya  had performed in his first 100 days in office. The former PDP National Deputy Publicity Secretary  said, “Security has improved. The governor promised increased water supply, you can see it  has been done through the water project in Nafada and Cham. Farmers got fertilisers in good time this year, which has not been the practice.  The governor is an accountant of repute; it is our hope and expectation that he will do better than his predecessor. If Inuwa succeeds, Gombe has succeeded.” A  retired permanent secretary, Umar Gurama, said,  “You  can’t assess the governor based on 100 days if there are funds and everything is in order. But he is trying to find out the true position of things. The governor is trying to manage the  crisis he  on the ground. You can’t run a government without money.” A lawyer, Ismaila Atiku,  said the governor had done  well in the area of  infrastruture. He said,  “Since  Yahaya became  governor I have not bought water. Infrastructural development has improved. A  maternity  is being  built in Jekadafari. He has also  completed the construction of some  roads.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 