Patrick Odey, Uyo Commercial motorcyclists in Akwa Ibom State, on Tuesday, stormed the Uyo station of the Nigerian Television Authority to protest the alleged killing of one of their colleagues in the Mbierebe Obio community  by policemen attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. It was gathered that the deceased was shot by the SARS operatives while resisting the enforcement of the ban on the operations of motorcyclists in certain areas. “The police later went to the NTA station to make an announcement on the enforcement of the ban on motorcyclists in restricted areas when the angry motorcyclists trailed them to the station,” a source said. According to the source, the protesters pulled down the gate, set part of the building ablaze and vandalised two vehicles belonging to the station. It was gathered that many were injured in the process. A motorcyclist, who claimed to have witnessed the incident but pleaded anonymity, said on Wednesday that the deceased was shot by the operatives while resisting the confiscation of his motorcycle. “The deceased resisted the policemen, who tried to seize his motorcycle for violating the ban on motorcycle operations in Uyo,” the source said. The protest continued on Wednesday in the Mbierebe area of the town and extended to the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium as the protesters battled the security agents, while throwing missiles at government vehicles and disrupting business in the area. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Odiko Macdon, who confirmed the incident, stated that the command had already arrested 20 of the protesters. Macdon said one corpse was recovered by the police, adding that the command was still collating reports on the incident and could not tell if the deceased was shot by the police or the protesters. The PPRO, who described the incident as unfortunate, said it occurred because some people had constituted themselves into a thorn in the flesh of the police while enforcing the ban on motorcycle operations in restricted areas of the state. He stated, “I can’t confirm to you whether the recovered dead body was shot by the SARS or the protesting youth. The command is still receiving reports on the incident and will make the reports available to members of the media at the appropriate time. “It is unfortunate, because some members of the public have been trying to frustrate the police in carrying out our mandate of enforcing the ban on motorcyclists in restricted areas of the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 