Oladimeji Ramon The 123 men from Jigawa State who were arrested on August 30 by the Lagos State Task Force have withdrawn the N1bn fundamental rights enforcement suit they filed against the Lagos State Government. The men were intercepted along Moshalashi Road, Agege alongside 48 motorcycles in a truck, which was coming from Jigawa State. They sued the Lagos State Government for N1bn alleging unlawful detention and a violation of their fundamental rights. Also joined as respondents in the suit are the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice; the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, as well as the Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force, Yinka Egbeyemi. But counsel for the men, Abba Hikima, told our correspondent on Wednesday that his clients and the government had reached a compromise and the N1bn lawsuit had been withdrawn. “The motorcycles have been released and they have also released the truck carrying the men and other properties and we also withdrew the case. That was the condition they gave us, that if we withdraw the suit, they would release the motorcycles and the other properties seized from our clients. “What the Lagos State Government did was wrong and they understand that it is not going to turn out good for them in court. So, they used that as a condition to negotiate,” Hikima told our correspondent on Wednesday. In earlier interactions with our correspondent, Hikima had disclosed that the Lagos State Government had been in talks with Jigawa State, which was in turn putting pressure on him to withdraw the case. The lawyer said he had insisted on not withdrawing the case except the truck and the motorcycles seized from the men were released to them. When contacted on Wednesday, the spokesman for the Lagos State Task Force, Mr Taofeek Adebayo, said he was not aware that the seized motorcycles had been released to the men. READ ALSO: How we got evidence against ex-SGF Lawal –Witness He promised to find out and get back to our correspondent but he had yet to do as of press time. The men had, in their suit, marked FHC/L/CS/1519/19, urged the court to declare that Lagos State flagrantly violated their right to freedom of movement under Section 41 of the Constitution when they were prevented from coming into Lagos State without any prima facie incriminating evidence against them. They had urged the court to declare that their right to personal liberty under Section 35 of the Constitution was violated as a result of their detention by the Lagos State Task Force. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 