Ted Odogwu A non-governmental organisation, Power for All,  has called on policymakers, power utilities, civil society organisations and trade associations for increased investment in the renewable energy sector. It said this would help in achieving the Federal Government’s 90 per cent energy for all target by the year 2030, especially in the rural areas. The Head, Strategic Communication at Power for All, Mark Amaza, who made the call at a workshop, organised in Kano, as part of the Scaling Off Grid Energy project and Decentralisation of Renewable Energy,  said, “The only way to meet power needs of Nigerians, overcome the climate change challenges and maintain healthy environment, is to embrace renewable energy.” To this end, he called on the government at all levels, including financial institutions, to come in and grant interested individuals soft loans to enable them to afford the renewable energy project and reduce the effect of climate change, caused mostly by gas emission. “The renewable energy project is cheap, affordable for the pocket, faster to deploy and can easily be harnessed in areas, where the grid lines cannot be easily accessed, like the rural areas.” “It can easily be used for small and medium enterprises, even in the remote areas, like villages to power their businesses. All they need is assemblage of solar panels and the necessary accessories in a Technology Hub or solar farm from where they can be supplied power,” he said. According to him, the objective of the workshop is to assess the growth of the decentralised renewable energy sector in the state, the challenges facing the sector and to assess what follow-up activities and updates that would be required. “We are working with the Federal Government’s target for 75 per cent Nigerians to have power by the year 2020 and 90 per cent by 2030. We also want 1.1 million rural households to enjoy electricity every year between now and 2023 and we are trying to work with that target to enable them to achieve that goal,” he said. The Head, Planning and Investment Unit of Kano Electricity Distribution Company, Mr Yunusa Daneji,  described the workshop on DRE as an eye-opener for participants on how  to increase energy access, particularly in rural areas. Furthermore, he dispelled the notion that grid distribution companies were not comfortable with the rise of decentralised renewables. He noted that Nigeria’s mini-grid regulations had made adequate provisions on how mini-grids and Discos could partner through interconnected mini-grids. The representative of Kano State Ministry of Water Resources,Kawu Ali, disclosed that there were areas already earmarked in Madobi Local Government Area for solar project by the state government and other areas by private firms, adding that  when completed, the project would improve electricity generation, provide electricity to water works and boost economic activities in the state. Ali advised the Federal Government to, as a matter of priority, support the development and growth of renewable energy in the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 