Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives Committee on the Niger Delta Development Commission has insisted the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, appear before them on Thursday. The NDDC board is also billed to appear before the committee. Chairman of the committee, Mr Nicholas Ossai, told reporters in Abuja on Wednesday that they had received documents from the CBN on abandoned Federal Government projects in  Niger Delta. He, however, said Emefiele must appear before the committee for clarification. The panel had summoned Emefiele;  the acting Managing Director and directors of the NDDC for failing to appear before them at their inaugural investigative hearing on Tuesday last week. The development forced the committee to threaten to order the arrest of the officials if they failed to appear before them. Speaking on Wednesday, Ossai said, “Some of the documents we requested from the CBN have come and we are looking forward to receiving him (Emefiele)  on Thursday.  I know the CBN Governor is a law-abiding citizen. “What we did is to protect the interest of  Niger Delta people, whose money has been released to do a good job for them by the Federal Government. The investigation we are doing will unravel a lot of issues and making sure that some of these contractors go back to site to excite the jobs abandoned over the years.” When asked why the date was changed from Monday to Thursday, the lawmaker said they were told that the CBN boss had travelled out of the country. READ ALSO: CBN puts currency in circulation at N2.02tn “The CBN Governor is going to appear on Thursday including all directors and the acting MD of  the NDDC.” Ossai vowed they would go after contractors who had been paid by the Federal Government but had failed to execute projects they were paid for. He said, “A record of N70.4bn was collected as mobilisation for 1,723 contractors without going to site. The Auditor General of the Federation has done his job. We cannot be judgmental, we need to confirm by inviting all the contractors. Their names are here.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 