Samuel Awoyinfa An expert in oil and gas industry, Dr Layi Fatona, says for Nigeria to achieve energy sufficiency for economic growth, it has to deliberately formulate a policy which can make it less dependent on fuel imports. He said this on Wednesday in Lagos while delivering a paper at a lecture organised by the Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society/Mobil. The lecture’s topic was: ‘Nigeria’s energy independence – Recipe for its attainment.’ Fatona is the managing director, ND Western Limited. Fatona, who noted that Nigeria was an unusual example of country blessed with substantial resources in raw forms such oil, gas and condensate, said it was painful that the nation had not been able to attain self-sufficiency in production and refining of the crude oil for internal use and export. The petroleum geologist said Brazil had achieved energy independence since 2006, following the concerted efforts of the leadership in developing ethanol and other forms of energy, which served the country and the export market. He said, “Energy independence is attained when a country can produce its fuel to meet its demand. Brazil is in that class. We must look at Brazil to see what they have done and how they did it. “If we can produce and process our own oil and gas, the government will save a lot of resources used on fuel importation. According to the statistics from the Central Bank of Nigeria, between 2013 and 2017, Nigeria spent $36.4bn on importation of petroleum products. “Energy independence can be achieved through deliberate and strategic policy. We all seem to know the problem. But what are we doing about it? Or is it that we are doing the wrong things? We need to recognise that we need a conversation.” Fatona said that the government and the stakeholders in the petroleum sector should partner and fashion out an integrated approach not only on exploration but production and processing of other value chains from oil and gas. He said the nation would be seen to have attained energy independence when vehicles, boats and equipment in the factories were all powered by lubricants and energy produced in the country. He also called for increasing domestic oil and gas production and building of smaller modular refineries among others. On his part, the President, NMGS, Simon Nkom, said the topic of the lecture was apt because energy was central to critical areas of development. He noted that the society held the lecture annually in order to engage necessary stakeholders on issues of national importance. Nkom, who said the members of the society were professionals in mining, energy, water and oil and gas among others, said the nation would not develop if the energy sector was underperforming. He said, “Every year, we use the lecture for dissemination of scientific knowledge which could lead to the development of the country. Every year, we issue communiqués which we send to the government, which had been useful in policy formulation.” A past president of the NMGS, Mr Jim Orife, also called for the formation of a pressure group, which would liase with the policymakers, the National Assembly and the government on things that needed to be done to make Nigeria energy independent. The event attracted dignitaries from the ivory towers and energy experts, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 