Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Emirates Aviation University says it has introduced an international study package, offering financial benefits and support to encourage students. According to the aviation school, the package includes 20 per cent savings on cost for university accommodation, 15 per cent discount on programme fees, and a complementary economy-class return ticket per year on Emirates. “The package will also offer the students free services for three persons from Marhaba, the world’s leading passenger services providers, free hotel accommodation for two adults for three days as well as a waiver for all visa-administration charges,” it added. The Vice-Chancellor of Emirates Aviation University, Dr Ahmad Al-Ali, said, “Getting your kids settled in a new university and city can be a difficult task for many parents. The special package will give parents peace of mind and ensure a stress-free experience, as they help their children settle in Dubai. “With the new benefits, students can easily visit their parents and enjoy a comfortable lifestyle while pursuing their academic and career goals at Emirates Aviation University.” According to him, studying abroad helps students develop powerful personal and professional relationships, long-lasting cultural ties, find new interests and experience life from a different perspective. He added that Emirates Aviation University believed that education could be greatly enhanced by experience and exposure to different, real-life perspectives, thus supporting its students with the best tools to benefit from the unique opportunities. The EAU said in a statement that it offered an extensive range of educational opportunities designed to provide students with the best aviation-related specialisations. It said, “Students can choose from vocational, undergraduate and postgraduate programmes that combine the highest standard of academics with the latest development in the field of aviation. “The university programmes are offered in collaboration with Coventry University in the UK and accredited by different national and international institutions, including last year’s accreditation from the European Aviation Safety Agency as a maintenance training organisation.” The EAU, according to the school, is the academic wing of the Emirates Group and one of the region’s most prestigious universities, which recently announced a new six-month internship programme for students that demonstrate extraordinary academic performance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com