Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Katsina State police command on Wednesday confirmed the arrests of 27 suspects in connection with Tuesday night arson at Danmusa, the home town of Secretary to the state government, Inuwa Muhammed. The command’s Acting Police Public Relations Officer, Asp Anaz Gezawa confirmed the development. Trouble was said to have started in the town which is the headquarters of Danmusa Local Government Area, around 10:00 p.m on Tuesday when some hoodlums from a nearby Gurza village also in the council descended on a suspected bandit who was riding on a motorcycle within the premises of the house of the head of the town, Mallam Gaddau Abubakar. Following the inability of the suspected bandit to offer reasonable explanations on his business in the area, attempts were made to mob him. READ ALSO: Xenophobia: African politicians responsible for youths’ miserable situation —Ezekwesili It was further learnt that Mallam Abubakar implored the hoodlums not to take the law into their hands, urging them to hand over the suspected bandit to the police. A riotous situation reportedly followed which was allegedly hijacked by other hoodlums who razed one of the secretariats of the All Progressives Congress in the town. It was learnt that the intervention of the police prevented the miscreants from burning down another APC secretariat in the town. The secretariat was, nonetheless vandalized. The country home of the SSG in the town was also not spared. According to the police, part of the building comprising the garage and the sitting room were torched while the remaining part of the building was spared. ASP Gezawa said, “Calm is back in the town. We have arrested at least 27 suspects in connection with the incident. Our men are fully on ground at Danmusa and in control of the situation. Investigation of the incident has commenced.’’ The SSG could not be reached for comments as he was said to be on tour with Governor Aminu Masari of some LGAs of the state on how to end current bandits’ attacks in the state.