Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta Some miscreants, on Saturday, beat up a warder identified simply as Ahmed, who attempted to arrest them in Abeokuta during the monthly environmental sanitation held across Ogun State. Our correspondent gathered that the hoodlums, who were loitering in the Brewery/Akin Olugbade/Lafenwa Road area during the three-hour exercise, were stopped by the Environmental Task Force for contravening the law. The task force, which comprises policemen, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps and prison officials, drove in a Black Maria and mobile court van to the place. Attempts by the prison officials to apprehend the miscreants infuriated and prompted them to pounce on Ahmed, who was later rescued by his colleagues. Meanwhile, no fewer than 80 persons have been arrested for various infractions of the Environmental Laws of the state. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Environment, Yetunde Dina, disclosed this in a statement by the Information Officer of the ministry, Rotimi Oduniyi. Dina said the 80 persons were arrested in Abeokuta and Ijebu-Ode after they were found guilty of contravening the laws by the environmental mobile courts. She said the ministry would continue to prosecute those who contravene the laws, adding that it was mandatory for residents to clean their environment during the monthly sanitation. She, however, commended many of the residents for complying with the laws, adding that their attitude had improved the environmental rating of the state. Also speaking, the Director, Waste Management, Ogun State Environmental Protection Agency, Mr Akinbode Sofela, said all the generated waste during the sanitation was being moved to various dumps spread across the state. He urged the residents to drop their refuse at designated points for onward transfer to the dumps. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 