Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Residents of oil-producing Elebele community in the Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have lamented the hardship caused by the collapse of the major bridge in the area. The Elebele Bridge, which crosses the Kolo Creek at Elebele, collapsed on Thursday under the weight of a long heavy-duty truck loaded with chipping dust. The ill-fated truck was said to be conveying the material to the construction site of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Park at neighbouring Emeyal undertaken by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board. The bridge connects several communities in Bayelsa East Senatorial District covering the three local government areas of Ogbia, Nembe and Brass and links Yenagoa, the state capital. Although no life was lost, the driver of the vehicle and his assistant were said to have sustained injuries. It was learnt that the incident left those travelling along the Ogbia-Nembe-Brass route stranded for several hours on Thursday before ferries were brought to ameliorate their plight. When Saturday Punch visited the scene of the collapsed bridge on Friday, residents were seen crossing the Kolo Creek with canoes and other available ferries. The Chairman, Elebele Community Development Committee, Mr. Makeke Ibukan, said the people were suffering as a result of the disaster. The President-elect of Elebele youth body, Mr. Okala Azibola Zico, said the collapse of the bridge had adversely impacted commercial activities in the area. Azibola, who noted that the truck outweighed the capacity of the bridge, said the Elebele Road was the only route to several communities. He said, “From yesterday (Thursday) till today (Friday), it has affected business so much. Economically, it has affected business. It has caused a lot of damage in the life of the people living in this area. It is the only way that we can connect to our communities. My house is on the other side of the bridge; so for me it’s a difficulty. “This bridge connects almost 80 per cent of Ogbia communities. So it’s a great disaster to Ogbia Kingdom as a whole.” Azibola and the CDC chairman complained that no official of the Ogbia Local Government Council and the Bayelsa State Government had visited the community as of noon on Friday, more than 24 hours after the bridge collapsed. They, however, called for the construction of a temporary structure to ease movement. They further appealed to the local council and the state government as well as the SPDC and the Niger Delta Development Commission to come to their aid as the suffering was becoming unbearable to them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com