Deji Lambo No fewer than 19 suspected cultists have been arrested by men of the Lagos State Police Command for alleged involvement in the killing of four members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities during a supremacy fight in the Imota area of Ikorodu. PUNCH Metro learnt that while the Oro festival was going on in the town, a disagreement broke out between the cultists and the fight that ensued resulted in the death of four persons on Saturday. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement that the clash occurred during the traditional Oro festival, adding that 19 suspects had so far been arrested in connection with the incident. He added that the corpses recovered from the scene of the attacks had been deposited in the Ikorodu General Hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. Elkana stated, “On Saturday, August 31, 2019, cult clashes between the Eiye and Aiye confraternities occurred while the Imota traditional Oro festival was going on. Two Eiye and two Aiye cultists were killed during the clashes. We have recovered and deposited the corpses in the Ikorodu General Hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. “Nineteen suspects have been arrested; two locally-made pistols, two live cartridges, three expended cartridges, 11 assorted stolen phones, charms and sizeable quantity of Indian hemp were recovered. Intensive patrol and stop-and-search operations are still being sustained and the case will be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, after preliminary investigation. Further development will be communicated.” An eyewitness, Chinedu Johnson, said the attacks happened in four different locations, adding that the cultists used guns and machetes to perpetrate the crime. He stated that the cultists’ activities were creating tension in Imota, adding that residents had resorted to moving out of the community for their safety and security. Johnson said, “It was a little misunderstanding between the cultists that led to the attacks, which resulted in the death of four persons. Around 2pm on Saturday, at Arowolo bus stop, an Eiye member, Femi, was cut to death with machetes. The cultists cut off his right hand. “Around 5pm on the same day, an Aiye member, Sheriff Sanni, was also shot dead in his house opposite the Imota Police Station. I heard that his wife just gave birth. “The third person went to eat and was on his way home when the cultists shot him to death. Around 6pm, the fourth cultist, Lukman, aka Slanter, was shot in the stomach on the Ring Road. These cultists have been terrorising us in Imota and a lot of residents have moved out of this place. We want the government to come to our aid.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   