Umar Muhammed, Lafia Nasarawa State Governor, Engineer Abdullahi Sule, has said that the complex nature of the Nigerian society is not conducive for establishing state police as being advocated by some Nigerians. Engineer Sule stated this while being questioned as a guest on Channels Television, as monitored from Lafia by our correspondent. He equally identified funding as a major issue that will stand in the way of setting up state police in the country. The governor, who disagreed with the suggestion that police officers should be posted to their place of origin in order to effectively discharge their responsibilities, emphasized that state police is not the solution to the country’s security challenges. He, however, explained that his administration has decided to embrace community policing rather than state police, because security is a responsibility of everyone and that the people in the various communities are in a better position to police their environment. He said, “Today, in every community, you will have a traditional ruler, community leaders, stakeholders and more. These people are really responsible for the protection of that community, not necessarily the police.” The governor described those agitating for the introduction of language to determine where a police officer should serve as being “off the mark”, adding that the real issue is about finding the right people who will assist the security agencies and the communities toward ensuring that crime and criminalities are reduced to the nearest minimum. “That is the reason why we embraced community policing and carry it along. It’s little cheaper for us to manage, less sophisticated than taking state police as a whole,” he added. The governor cited instances, where institutions set up by the state to man communities, have succeeded like the LASMA in Lagos State and NAYES in Nasarawa State. “Let’s look at other national issues like the police, that have been handled by the states, whether such has been handled properly or not,” he pointed out. Engineer Sule cited the failure of most state electoral commissions across the country to conduct a credible, free and fair election, compared to what the Independent National Electoral Commission is doing. According to him, the crisis bedeviling council elections arise mostly because the state electoral commissions are under the direct control of the governors. It will be recalled that only last week, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, while on an official visit to Abeokuta, Ogun State, said the Federal Government has resolved that communities should take over the policing of their environment, while the conventional police force should give them the needed backups and support.