Analysts say the OPEC+ group’s Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee, which monitors a supply cut deal reached last year, has limited options when it meets in Abu Dhabi on Thursday. The obvious move is to deepen the reductions. READ ALSO: South African bishops knock Ramaphosa over attacks on Nigerians, others But while that could help prices, it also risks further losses of market share, analysts say. “OPEC has traditionally resorted to production cuts in order to shore up the prices,” said M. R. Raghu, head of research at Kuwait Financial Centre (Markaz). “However, this has come at the cost of reduction in OPEC’s global crude market share from a peak of 35 per cent in 2012 to 30 per cent as of July 2019,” he told AFP. Previous supply cuts have mostly succeeded in bolstering prices. But this time, the market has continued to slide — even after OPEC+ agreed in June to extend by nine months an earlier deal slashing output by 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd). The new factor is the trade dispute between the world’s two biggest economies, whose tit-for-tat tariffs have created fears of a global recession that will undermine demand for oil. Saudi economist Fadhl al-Bouenain said the oil market has become “highly sensitive to the US-China trade war”. “What is happening to oil prices is outside the control of OPEC and certainly stronger than its capability,” Bouenain told AFP. “Accordingly, I think OPEC+ will not resort to new production cuts” because that would further blunt the group’s already shrunken market share, he said. European benchmark Brent was selling at $61.54 per barrel Friday, in contrast with more than $75 this time last year but up from around $50 at the end of December 2018. The deliberations also coincide with stymied production from Iran and Venezuela and slower growth in US output, meaning that supplies are not excessively high. No decisions will be taken at Thursday’s meeting, but it should produce recommendations ahead of an OPEC+ summit in Vienna in December. Rapidan Energy Group said the alliance might need to cut output by an additional one million bpd to stabilise the market. But the problem will be deciding which member countries will shoulder the burden of any new cuts. Saudi Arabia, which is the de facto leader of OPEC and pumps about a third of the world’s oil, took on more than its fair share last time around. It has also undergone a major shake-up in its oil sector, announcing the replacement of energy minister Khalid al-Falih with Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman in the early hours of Sunday morning ahead of a much-anticipated stock listing of state oil giant Aramco. Bouenain said he believes that Riyadh is likely to resist taking on further cuts, given the impact on the kingdom’s revenues. Raghu said the primary factor dragging down oil prices was poor demand due to trade tensions between the US and China. “Without a favourable resolution to the dispute, OPEC’s production cuts will not result in a sizeable uptick of oil prices,” he said. (AFP)