Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has claimed that the Federal Capital Territory was safe, secure and not under any form of siege. His assertion comes as reports of abductions and rise in theft of vehicles across the city sparked panic among residents. About five persons including a lecturer with Baze University, Jabi, were reported kidnapped in Abuja on Saturday. While the police rescued the lecturer, the family of a victim, Miss Aisha Ardo, reportedly paid $15,000 to secure her release on Sunday night. Aisha, who is the daughter of a People’s Democratic Party chieftain, Umar Ardo, was taken away in a Toyota Camry outside a popular supermarket in Nkwame Nkrumah Crescent, Asokoro, on Saturday. Ardo confirmed the release of his daughter on Monday. Two teenagers returning from an Islamic school at Wuse Zone 6, around 6pm on Saturday were also said reportedly abducted. The names of the victims could not be immediately ascertained. Also feared abducted was Mrs Hannah Azubuike, who was reportedly taken away near Habiba Plaza, Maitama, around 8.30p.m. There have also been reports of rise in car theft around Abuja in recent weeks with vehicles stolen from public car parks across the city. But commenting on the security situation, the IG in a statement said the FCT had the lowest crime rate in the world, noting that “the FCT police command has a robust anti-crime architecture which is continually rejigged to effectively tackle prevailing and emerging crimes.” The statement by the police spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, read, “While observing that, like other climes across the world, the country has its security challenges, the IGP, however, notes that a comprehensive analysis of crime statistics of major cities across the world would reveal that Abuja has one of the lowest crime rates and remains indisputably one of the safest capital cities in the world.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 