Ife Ogunfuwa Nigerian mobile network operators have identified infrastructure deficit and vandalism as some of the factors responsible for the poor quality of service being experienced by subscribers across the country. Speaking through the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria and the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, they said investment inflow into the industry had dwindled in the past three years despite rising demand for connectivity. The Chairman, ALTON, Mr Gbenga Adebayo, stated that site closure due to demands by tax collecting agencies in certain states often affected the quality of service. “In most states, the problems we have are due to vandalism, site closure and difficulties in access to sites due to security challenges,” Adebayo said. In particular, he attributed poor network signal in Abuja to the limited number of telecoms sites and the fact that approval to build more sites had not been forthcoming. “Abuja is peculiar; we are limited by the availability of sites due to lack of approval from the municipal authority in Abuja. We don’t have the approval to build more sites in Abuja and that has left Abuja in the state it is in terms of quality of service,” Adebayo added. On his part, the President of ATCON, Olusola Teniola, he explained that the low foreign direct investment in the sector had affected infrastructure expansion by network operators. He warned that the trend might continue unless the macroeconomic situation of the country improved. He noted that the capacity of the telecom towers was inadequate for additional services emanating from the increasing use of Over-the-Top applications, financial services and security services. “It is very evident that the usage of our network is not for voice calls but for numerous other services and these services and others that the networks were originally designed for are putting more pressure on the networks across the country,” ATCON boss said. Teniola also said, “Without additional investment made to increase the capacity of these networks as well as the coverage, we will continue to see drops in quality of service. “There are a lot more people carrying out financial transactions on their mobile devices and banks are using mobile networks much more than in the past. There is also the recognition that our networks are used by security agencies and we cannot ignore the huge usage of the OTT players on our networks more than in the past.” He noted that there were gaps in infrastructure and without requisite investment to bridge the gaps, the deficit would widen. According to Teniola, the plan of the Nigerian Communications Commission to dismantle idle masts and the threat by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority to destroy 7,000 towers will greatly affect Nigerians. The Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, NCC, Prof Umar Dambatta, had said the country required over 70,000 base transceiver stations to meet the rising adoption of advanced technology such as 5G and the Internet of Things. A latest report by the NCC indicated that Mobile Network Operators failed to meet the telecom industry’s network service requirements stipulated by the NCC in 26 states. The data indicated that the telcos fell short of the four major Key Performance Indicators – Dropped Call Rate, Call Set-up Success Rate, Standalone Dedicated Control Channel Congestion Rate and Traffic Control Channel Congestion Rate. This has led to poor quality and unsatisfactory call services rendered to subscribers of telecommunication services in the affected states. Other complaints from subscribers are dropped calls, poor signal, delayed call set-up, indiscriminate airtime deductions and subscription to unsolicited services, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 