Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Undie Adie has ordered for an investigation into the brawl that ensued between a police officer, Taiwo Orisade and some boys at a popular night club in Alagbaka area of Akure, the state capital. Orisade, who was alleged to have been drunk, allegedly stabbed nine persons in the club during a brawl. The policeman and the victims were said to have been injured during the fight and had been taken to hospitals for treatment. The state police command’s Public Relations Officer Mr Femi Joseph, in a statement on Monday, said the CP had ordered for a full investigation into the matter. READ ALSO: Drunk policeman stabs nine persons at Ondo nightclub He, however, explained that from the preliminary investigation conducted by the command, Orisade was provoked by the boys which led to the free for all. According to the PPRO, the preliminary investigation also revealed that three boys were involved in the brawl, not nine and the police officer did not stab any of them. He said, “There was a social gathering organised by a friend to one of our policemen, Sergeant Taiwo Orishalade at a popular eatery in Akure to celebrate the birthday of his girlfriend. The police officer who was not on official duty and also not in uniform sat with some other guests at the party. “At a point, some boys who apparently identified the police officer even though he was in mufti, approached him to buy drinks for them. The policeman humbly told them that he was just invited by a friend to the party and besides, he did not have enough money on him to accede to their request. “The boys who were apparently drunk and appeared like miscreants insisted that the officer must buy them drinks or leave the scene, or in the alternative be ready to be killed just like they did to his colleague inspector sometime ago. The officer pleaded with them to take things calmly, but in a twinkle of an eye, one of the boys slapped him while the other one took a bottle, smashed it and stabbed the Sergeant with it. “Naturally, he had to fight back which resulted in injuries to the three of them. The three of them involved in the incident including the policeman were taken to the hospital, treated and discharged.” He said all the boys involved in the fight had refused to report at the police station.