Deji Lambo Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested one Innocent Ifunayachi for allegedly defiling a 14-year-old girl during a visit to her parent’s house in the Bariga area of the state. The 34-year-old suspect, who met the victim eating, sent her on errand to get some drinks for him and in her absence, allegedly laced her food with a substance suspected to be Indian hemp. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that the victim, after returning from the errand, ate the food and became unconscious afterwards. He stated that Ifunayachi took advantage of the victim’s state of unconsciousness to defile her, adding that detectives from the Family Support Unit of the command arrested the suspect, who confessed to committing the crime. Elkana said, “On Wednesday, September 11, 2019, around 2.30pm, the Bariga Police Station received a complaint that one Innocent Ifunayachi, 34, defiled a 14-year-old girl in her family house. The suspect, being a friend to the family, visited and found the girl eating noodles, and while she left to get him some drinks, he quickly put some quantities of dry leaves suspected to be Indian hemp in the food. “She returned and ate the food without a foreknowledge of the substance in the food. She lost consciousness after eating the food and Ifunayachi took advantage of her state to defile her. Detectives from the Family Support Unit arrested the suspect and he has confessed to committing the crime. The victim was taken to hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect will be charged.” Similarly, one Dayo Maker has been arrested by personnel of the command for allegedly conspiring with a fleeing suspect, Kazeem Bello, to defile a 13-year-old girl in the Bariga area of the state. Elkana said the suspects, after perpetrating the crime, threatened to kill the victim if she exposed them, adding that the girl, who got pregnant after the incident, gave birth to a baby girl. He stated that the victim exposed the suspects after they threatened to defile her younger sister, adding that Dayo was arrested, while his accomplice absconded. Elkana stated, “On Wednesday, September 11, 2019, around 7.20pm, the Bariga Police Station received a complaint that sometime in November 2018, one Kazeem Bello, 26, conspired with one Dayo Maker, 24, of No. 26 Oreshegun Street, Ilaje, Bariga, and defiled a 13-year-old girl. The victim became pregnant as a result of the defilement and gave birth to a baby girl about five weeks ago. “The suspects had earlier threatened to kill the victim if she told anybody about the incident. The victim, however, summoned courage to narrate her ordeal to her family when the same suspects threatened to defile her younger sister. One of the suspects, Dayo Maker, was arrested by detectives from the Family Support Unit, Bariga, while his accomplice, Kazeem Bello, is at large. Investigation is ongoing; efforts are in place to apprehend the second suspect.” In another development, one Kehinde Bakare, who was declared wanted for the alleged murder of one Samuel Ladejo, has been arrested by men of the command. Elkana said one locally-made pistol with two live cartridges was recovered from Bakare, adding that he would be charged. The PPRO stated, “On Thursday, September 12, 2019, around 4.15pm, following  sustained monitoring, one Kehinde Bakare, 23, a prime suspect in the murder of one Samuel Ladejo, was arrested at Obalende and one locally-made pistol with two live cartridges was recovered from him. “It will be recalled that on Monday, October 1, 2018, around 6am, one Bisi Komolafe, an assistant manager at Famous Hotel, situated at No. 36 Obalende Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, reported at the station that one of the hotel’s employees, Samuel Ladejo, left the hotel to attend a party on Obalende Road, Ikoyi, where he was stabbed in the chest by some boys, who ran away. After being rushed to the General Hospital for treatment, the victim later died in the hospital. One Umukoro Otega was earlier arrested in connection with the crime and charged. Bakare will be charged too.” The police have also arrested a suspected cultist, Emmanuel Olatunde, aka Pastor, for allegedly terrorising residents and business owners in the Bariga area of the state. Elkana said Olatunde had been linked to a series of robbery and murder cases in the area, adding that he was responsible for the death of one Ahmed Karowi, a suspected member of the Aiye Confraternity. He stated, “On Saturday, September 14, 2019, around 11.15pm, following sustained monitoring, detectives from the Bariga Police Station arrested one Emmanuel Olatunde, alias Pastor, 31, at No. 27 Oremenunu, Ibafo Street, Bariga. The suspect, who is an ex-convict, is a high ranking member of the Eiye Confraternity terrorising people in Bariga and environs. “He has a link with a series of robbery and murder cases in Bariga. He is responsible for the murder of one Ahmed Karowi, an Aiye Confraternity kingpin on Wednesday, September, 11, 2019. Investigation is ongoing and the suspect will soon be charged.” Similarly, one Emeka Emmanuel has been arrested for allegedly defrauding unsuspecting members of the public under the pretext of securing employment for them with the Economic Financial Crimes Commission in Lagos. Elkana said Emmanuel was arrested in possession of a fake EFCC identity card, which he allegedly used in perpetrating the crime, adding that the suspect had defrauded one Semiu Olaposi of the sum of N51,000. He stated that Emmanuel was also running an illegal medical facility, adding that medical equipment and fake certificates were recovered during a raid on his place of residence. The PPRO said, “On Saturday, September 14, 2019, around 11am, acting on credible intelligence, the Ojo Police Station arrested one Emeka Emmanuel, 29, of Ijanikin, Lagos, at the Iyana Iba area. The suspect was in possession of a fake EFCC ID card, which he used in parading himself as an EFCC operative. The suspect duped innocent citizens on  the pretext of securing employment for them as EFCC operatives. “One Semiu Olaposi of Agbara, Lagos, who is one of his victims, told police investigators that the suspect collected the sum of N51,000 from him over a month ago with a promise of securing employment for his son as an EFCC operative. The suspect has confessed to the crime and was also found operating an illegal medical facility in his residence. Items recovered from him included medical equipment and fake certificates. “The command has advised members of the public, especially jobseekers, to be mindful of the activities of scammers in order not to fall prey to their antics. Investigation is ongoing and the suspect will be charged.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 