Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta A professor of economics in Bayero University, Kano, Prof. Binta Jibril, has identified the Small and Medium Enterprises and microfinance banks as key factors that can solve the economic problems the country is facing. Jibril who is also the Director of International Institute of Islamic Banking and Finance stated this in Abeokuta while speaking with newsmen shortly after a three-day thematic training for 150 start-ups across the South-West states including Kwara on ‘Financing Start-ups and SMEs using Islamic products’ which was held in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. The economist said the Federal Government must be ready to promote the SMEs and ease the process of licensing microfinance banks so as to ensure access to finance for the start-up businesses. The professor of economics insisted that the SMEs were actually the drivers of economy globally, stressing that government must maximise the opportunities to enhance the economic development of the country. According to her, for start-ups to get finance from commercial banks, they need collateral and such small businesses do not usually have collateral because of their size. Yet, their development or progress is critical to the development of this country. She added, “Government should ease the process of licensing micro-finance banks because there are a lot of values in that. If we have performing microfinance banks all over the place, it will promote easy access of finance to the Small and Medium Enterprises, which include farmers, market women. This will enhance economic development. “Many young people have good ideas but to put them into practice, they need funding and this is just too much for government.” Speaking on the debt of the country, the expert expressed concern over the rate at which the country owed the international communities, stressing that the country was in debt because it relied heavily on interest-based loans from international market. Jibril however called on the government to embrace Islamic financing products such as Sukuk found to be cheaper and better. She said, “I am very worried about the debt of the country. If you see the cost of debt on our neck despite the Paris fund issues, the waiver and everything, you will be shocked and this is because Nigeria had consistently relied on interest-based loans from international market.” Earlier, the President of Al-Hayat Relief foundation and the convener of the training, Dr Asif Azeez, explained that the training was aimed at educating participants about viability of Islamic products for financing start-ups and the SMEs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 