Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. How time flies? Yes, one thing that passes by so quickly is time and as one who believes in a supreme being, I also ask for grace to redeem time and hopefully, leave some footprints in the sand of time. On the flip side, I wonder if those at the helm of affairs think like I do. Do they realise that positions of authority are primarily to serve the cause and the will of the people? Well, I know some do, but majority do not. Be that as it may, I think there are few that listen and my hope is that the new Minister of Communications, Dr  Isa Pantami, remains one of them,  because power is indeed transient. I first met this gentleman in 2015 at GITEX Technology Week Dubai, shortly after he was appointed as the Director- General of the National Information Technology Development Agency. We discussed extensively, about his goals and plans for the industry. Under the watch of the erstwhile DG, NITDA made considerable progress. While I would not say that I agree with all his policy thrusts, I think some of them, such as the data policy guidelines, will certainly help the country greatly as long as we follow through with the execution. Be that as it may, we need to move the industry and the nation forward, even though a lot of our policymakers still do not realise it. The ICT industry holds one of the keys to unlocking our full economic potential. I was looking at the 2019 budget and it is sad to note that once again, the technology industry remains extremely poorly funded; yet it is one industry that all ministries, departments and agencies of government spend billions on, either procuring hardware or paying for software. What an irony! It is this believe and conviction that has motivated me, to remain, as one of the strong voices of the industry, selflessly pushing the common good. I remember, also, dedicating a piece in this column to Dr Pantami, when he became the DG of NITDA. Good a thing that the new Minister of Communications, is coming from one of the critical agencies under the Ministry of Communications, hence, he is coming into a familiar terrain, which he understands, pretty well. Below are three areas I urge the Minister to tackle among many others he may pencil down: A final solution to the Right of Way debate This issue has become a torn in Nigeria’s flesh. How can a nation that wants its citizens, particularly, those in the rural areas to become digitally savvy, expect to arbitrarily tax the living day light out of service providers, yet expect such services to become a reality? I agree that the issue of right of way is beyond the Federal Government alone. The state and local government authorities also have to be involved, because, they are the ones responsible for this multiple taxation. The security agencies too should be involved in this, to nip in the bud, the extortionist disposition of the so called, ‘Area boys’, who usually extort money when the workers of these ISP’s are laying the fibre cables. Ultimately, I hope that, a policy like this would help drive down the cost of Internet. Data is expensive in Nigeria! I know that, many would say that, it is a lot cheaper, compared to where we are coming from. The reality, however, is that many Nigerians cannot afford to buy the data required, to really drive digital economy. It is, certainly, different from the kind used for tweeting, or using WhatsApp. Give more attention to start-ups and innovation hubs During the tenure of Mrs Omobola Johnson as the Minister of Communication Technology, there was evident government support for the ecosystem. She was then a strong ambassador  for the ecosystem. I remember her, personally intervening, when some start-ups ran into trouble, with overzealous government officials. On many occasions, she ensured that, a number of start-ups travelled with her, to various countries, just to ensure that, they get the exposure they needed. Unfortunately, her successor , in his own wisdom chose, to go another route. He literally turned the switch off, but thankfully, the ecosystem has progressed, in spite of all the challenges, although, it could have done better. My hope is that he would turn the switch back on. Thankfully, the ecosystem is getting more organised and you have groups, such as Innovation Support Network, hubs comprising  75 founding hubs across the country to work with. This group can form the basis with which you can reach out to hundreds of young people trying to solve problems across the country. Support the local software industry I like the fact that, during your reign as the DG of NITDA, you pushed to deepen local content policy, especially, with regards to data, being hosted locally, which is indeed, highly commendable. There are, however, a lot more to be done. I would love to call on you to get the Nigerian state to be aware that a lot is not well, with how we treat software solutions that are developed, locally. Governments, at all levels, have a tendency to look at local software, with disdain and this, is not in our best national interest. I know that some people will be quick, to point to the fact that, Remita is a local software solution, being used to power TSA, but then, I remember the Managing Director, Mr John Obaro, stating clearly on my TV show that Remita interconnects with three, or four other foreign software that he believes could easily have been handled by various competent Nigerian companies. Dear Dr Pantami, I know that as the new Minister, you have your table full and I trust your sleeves are already rolled up. My hope, is that you do not relent on your efforts to re-position Nigeria and make her a true Tech powerhouse as we may become digital slaves if we do not change national strategy. On a final note, I wish to say congratulations again to Dr Pantami. One positive side of this appointment is that for the very first time, the Minister of Communications now has a strong leader that has the ears of the Presidency and this may be the magic that the industry truly needs. I wish the new minister the best of luck! CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 