Segun Olutade is the Executive Director, Shelter Watch Initiative, a non-governmental organisation for construction artisans. He tells MAUREEN IHUA-MADUENYI that more youths are acquiring skills in the construction industry The building and construction industry is currently not thriving as much as it was some years ago. What is the rate of employment among artisans? Well, in a way, it is quite hard to believe that the construction industry is not blooming. But it is rather safe to speak for our own centre here at Shelter Watch as the figures are getting better here with our trained artisans. We don’t leave our trained artisans after necessary training as we understand that it might be difficult for them to stand alone at this stage of their lives. We rather source for jobs for them. We also help them source for loans to get some equipment that will afford them the needed tools, space and other things they need to stand alone. Are there things the government is doing to improve the lot of artisans? Since over 80 per cent of our buildings in Nigeria are put up by our artisans without input from the professionals; no government can close its eyes to the development of the construction artisans. The Federal Government has put in place opportunity to access loans at about six per cent for our artisans. Those in the first batch of our retrained artisans have attended all the interviews needed and anytime from now loans of about N5m to N10m will be disbursed to them. Nigeria has the biggest construction industry in Africa. Also, the housing need of the country is estimated at between 17 and 23 million units. The building and construction industry is expecting high growth rate. Thus, in the years to come, Nigeria could be one of the largest construction markets in the world with a high employment potential for artisans. The present government is fully aware of this and has been taking steps to ensure that the sector is a good alternative means of livelihood for the teeming population of unemployed graduates and non-educated people in the country. There are several schemes being run all over the country, one of which is the N-Power Build Programme. The N-Power Build Programme affords an average young person between the ages of 18 and 35 to go through an in-centre training for three months. The trainees are paid N10,000 alongside feeding allowance all through the course of the in-center training. After the first three months, the trainees are made to go further in their skills acquisition via an apprenticeship with a recognised company in that line of trade; and even all through the year, the N10,000 allowance is still paid. What impact have these initiatives had? Our centre, which came into existence in 2015, is one of the initiatives with the primary aim of upskilling the ageing building artisans and establishing the needed bridge between the ageing artisans and interested Nigerian youths. With support from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria and other government and private agencies, we commenced free one-day talk shop for building artisans in 2004. The nationwide event lasted five years. Realising the fact that the one-day talk shop is not yielding the desired result, we solicited and got a module from the relevant professional body, the Nigerian Institute of Building, and in 2009, commenced retraining of building artisans in polytechnics. Over 2,000 artisans were retrained and certified in three polytechnics in the South-West of Nigeria. Lagos State Government alone sponsored over 700 artisans for the programme. While six of the retrained artisans are currently working outside the country, one is lecturing at the Federal polytechnic Ilaro, in Ogun state Rather than sitting under the bridges and other unauthorised places which has continued to discourage Nigerian youths from taking over from the ageing artisans, the NGO, with support from the German International Development Organisation, set up the first job centre in Ogun State. Shelter Watch Initiative through its Job Centre project provides a mediation platform for jobs in the housing and construction sector with the aim to support the market in overcoming some of its challenges. Since modern tools have been identified as a major problem affecting the performance of Nigerian building artisans, the NGO is already facilitating loans for the certified artisans. Recently, GIZ donated power tools worth N10m to N15m to us and we are set to commence renting out the tools to artisans and using them for clients through the centre. Shelter Watch Initiative has finalised arrangements to empower 500 youths on the use of the power tools in Ogun State and the centre has empowered over 700 youths, most of whom have been working on their own. About 40 per cent of the trainees are ladies who are mostly in painting and plumbing. What is your view on the assertion by many professionals that local artisans lack skills and that it is the reason why they are not patronised? Facts from our artisans who have left Nigeria reveal that our artisans are not that bad; rather they lack modern tools. GIZ has been a wonderful partner in reskilling and equipping the artisans. What we have also discovered is that attitude to work and clients is bad. These are the bases for our three months part-time programme in the polytechnics. Have these initiatives translated into better construction work in the industry. Again, has it reduced the importation of foreign artisans? We have just started and l make bold to say we are getting it right. Our youths are getting more interested in the building trade. With power tools and good attitude, Nigerian artisans will comfortably take their rightful place in the construction industry. What is the level of interest from youths to acquire skills in the construction sector? The level of interests being shown by the youths in acquiring and attaining competency in the construction sector has been very encouraging ass against the ‘hide and seek’ played by an average youth in keeping their identity as an artisan in the construction sector in the times past. They now proudly flaunt the pictures of their busy moments on sites all over the Internet, taking pride and joy in what they do. All thanks to the advancement in technology and the invention of modern tools which are now being used to carry out some tedious tasks on sites. These tools have made their work all easy and have removed the stigma being avoided by an average ‘big boy’ in the society. The interests we received from willing youths who want to participate in our training have been overwhelming. We are now left without an option than to run the selection of the participants like a university admission. We encountered a similar scenario in the recent enrolment for the federal government initiated the N-Power Build Programme. There were many applicants than the given slots. We had to put stringent rules in place, and even with that, we still had more people than we could admit for the programme. This shows that many youths are now willing to acquire skills in the construction work. The commitment of the Federal Government in fighting youth unemployment especially through trades in the construction sector can best be appreciated in the huge amount of modern tools given to each of the trainees. The disappointment in getting employed by the government or landing a white-collar job has made many graduates to also join the race into artisanship. Turnout for training during this holiday has made us to appreciate the need for summer training. Though they were made to pay, students from higher institutions including medical students from Babcock University turned up for the training. The 70 per cent practical and 30 per cent classroom have helped tremendously. To say artisanship is currently experiencing the influx of willing youths, especially in the construction sector would not give enough justice to the emphasis needed in their level of interest to acquire skills in the construction sector. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 