Rasheed Bisiriyu Mitsubishi is making efforts to position its Eclipse Cross as a model to reckon with among its peers as it takes the design of the 2020 edition of the vehicle a notch higher with a remarkable improvement in both safety and general performance. This is coming as the model launched last year has continued to receive international recognition. The latest report shows that the model has won nine awards. The Eclipse Cross is a strategic model designed by the Japanese automaker, Mitsubishi Motors, to join its global line-up of crossover SUVs: the ASX compact SUV and the Outlander. The automaker says safety issue is taken seriously as demonstrated with the advanced safety features in the new Eclipse Cross, which are now available at even more accessible entry trim. Safety The car comes with forward collision mitigation with pedestrian detection system that helps to determine if a frontal collision with a vehicle or pedestrian is likely. The vehicle is said to warn the driver with audible and visual alerts and applies braking to help avoid or reduce the severity of a collision. “When it comes to safety, we don’t compromise. Thanks to its combination of integrated safety features, Eclipse Cross helps give you the freedom to drive with peace of mind,” the Mitsubishi says. The vehicle also has automatic high beam headlights that detect vehicles ahead and will do the work by automatically switching between high beam and low beam settings on your headlights. Its lane departure warning system uses onboard cameras to monitor lane position in front of the vehicle and alerts the driver audibly and visually if it detects the vehicle leaving its lane unintentionally. Its other striking features are rain-sensing wipers, blind spot warning and lane change assist, adaptive cruise control, multi-view camera system, rear cross traffic alert, rise body construction, fog and led running lights. The blind spot warning and lane change assist systems are said to alert the driver when a vehicle is approaching your blind spot. When a vehicle is travelling at the same speed or faster in the detection areas, a warning light illuminates in the corresponding side mirror. If your turn signal is on, the warning light on the corresponding mirror blinks and the system then beeps three times to signify it is unsafe to change lanes. The available Adaptive Cruise Control system uses radar technology to judge distances between you and the vehicle ahead, helping you maintain a safe driving distance. If the car moves out of your lane or goes beyond your set speed, the system will resume your set speed. Meanwhile, the Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross has been acknowledged as the best Compact SUV at the Car of the Year event in Russia. A report obtained by our correspondent on Tuesday said that the “Car of the Year in Russia” had been adjudged as one of the largest surveys of its kind in the world with more than one million people voting for their favourite brands. The votes are independently verified by research company IpsosComcon. The statement noted, “The Eclipse Cross crossover SUV was selected as the RJC Car of the Year 2019 run by the Automotive Researchers and Journalists Conference of Japan. It recalled that in 2018, the car earned the highest safety rating according to the independent European organisation Euro NCAP and was awarded by the Nigeria Automotive Journalists Association as the Outstanding SUV design of the year. General Manager (Sales), Massilia Motors, Mr Tunji Itiola, commented on the performance and was quoted as saying, “The SUV is equipped for the Nigerian market with a 2.0 litre Continuously Variable Transmission petrol engine that allows seamless gear interchange, giving the smoothest driving experience within its category. “Not only is the Eclipse Cross a stylish fusion of a sharp coupe and a compact SUV, it has high rough road performance and well-balanced dynamics, due to Mitsubishi’s unique Super all-wheel control four-wheel-drive system.’’ The Eclipse Cross was described as an upscale model with super exciting features including its head-up display, conveying information above the dashboard for easy viewing. Massilia Motors is a joint venture of the CFAO Group and the Chanrai Group uniting forces to deliver customer satisfaction, according to the report, adding that the auto firm is the sole distributor of Mitsubishi Motors in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  