Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has advised rapper, Ikechukwu Onunaku, to make a formal report about his alleged kidnap and extortion by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The rapper, on Thursday, accused the SARS operatives of beating and robbing him of his money in the Lekki Phase 1 area of the state. Narrating his ordeal on his Instagram page, Ikechukwu alleged that he was pulled out of an Uber taxi, bundled into a police Hilux van and beaten by the operatives. According to him, the operatives drove him to the Lagos Island and forced him to withdraw all the money in his account after threatening to implicate him if he proved stubborn. He said, “I was kidnapped by SARS last night (Wednesday) two minutes away from my house, taken to Lagos Island and made to exhaust my ATM allowance or I would be killed and no one would know. “Not by armed robbers but when you are robbed and they are armed fully, five AK-47s. Blows to the head and bundled into a vehicle. Isn’t it the same thing and then after, you will now tell me our government is working or things are in place. “Let me tell you now straight up, I don’t care who you are if you are rolling solo in this town and SARS get you, day or night if they get your phone, it’s over for you. They don’t have names or numbers on their uniforms. “They literally said to me ‘Na u burn this our Hilux here yesterday abi?’ acting like they didn’t know who I am and they were going to implicate me in anything they felt or do with me what they would. “After collecting all the money on Lagos Island, they started laughing and telling me I was too stubborn that when would I introduce them to Don Jazzy. Oh, so you know me? “One even bragged about working a lot with Wazobia FM. Thanks for that info, at least now I have a point to start my own investigation. I could have been shot and left in the dark space on that dark road. No ID, no phone. Who would identify me? Who would be looking for me for days? After all, my people saw me enter Uber and heading home. READ ALSO: Taraba assembly clerk threaten suit over Facebook post “It’s a good day to be alive. I don’t even know what hashtag to put sef. It’s ok. I recorded a video initially from when I got home last night but it was too long and it made me cry again. So, I just said lemme just yan straight, no need for that at the moment. Just the facts. We are not safe. End of story. Know as you dey take move.” When PUNCH Metro contacted the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, he urged the rapper to come forward and report the incident to allow the command to commence investigation into the incident. “I’m not aware of the incident; if he has an issue, he should step forward with the facts so that we can investigate. We can’t work on speculations on the social media,” Elkana added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com