Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The  Onigbede of Igbede, Oba Johnson  Aina, has called on the police to arrest the brains behind the killing of  three people  during  Egungun festival in Odo-Owa, Kwara  State. Emmanuel Akinola,  an undergraduate,  was shot dead in Igbede while  others identified as Sunday Olukosi and Olasunkanmi Agboola were allegedly killed in Kajola during the  festival that took place between March 19 and April 1. Igbede and Kajola are  near  Odo-Owa in Oke-Ero Local Government Area of  the state. Oba Aina in a petition dated September 3, 2019  to the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Kayode Egbetokun,  said  although the police  arrested some  of the suspects  the attacks and charged  them, four who  allegedly escaped  had  arrived in their  community and  walking freely around. The petition read in part, “We wish to inform you that the accused that fled to the bush during police search and imposition of a curfew are now back in town, parading the streets of Odo-Owa and  its environs with audacity and seeming immunity. “It is our belief that your command will put in place logistics  for  effective policing to track down the hoodlums.” Oba  Aina said the attackers  destroyed  property worth millions of naira after killing  Akinola in  his domain. Oba Aina  said, “He was shot by one of the terrorists from Odo-Owa during their advancement to my mini-palace. Emmanuel was killed on  the premises of the mini-palace.” The Onigbede said the same people  attacked his community  during the 2017 Egungun festival, leading to  the Esa Orun of Igbede, Chief Clement Ayantoye, sustaining  gunshot wounds. Spokesman for the police in the state, Ajayi Okasanmi, confirmed  on Monday they had received  the petition. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com