Rasheed Bisiriyu Nigeria plans to offer naira futures for five years to 10 years to cushion foreign-exchange risks and attract more long-term funding, the Chief Executive Officer of Lagos-based FMDQ, Bola Onadele, has said. Onadele, in an interview in Lagos on Thursday, was reported by Bloomberg as saying market dealers and the FMDQ were “engaging the central bank to extend the curve of the FX futures because it will create stability for capital inflows into Nigeria. We wish for five-year to 10-year futures.” The exchange is seeking to bring more capital into Nigeria amid increasing pressure on the naira following a drop in Brent crude prices to below the Federal Government’s budgeted levels. The Central Bank of Nigeria started selling foreign-currency futures contracts on the FMDQ Securities Exchange Plc in 2017 with a maximum duration of 13 months. This was to alleviate pressure on the naira by spreading dollar purchases over a period of time, enabling investors to hedge against fluctuations in the naira, while also offering forwards that were introduced in 2011. Nigeria relies on oil for about 90 per cent of its foreign-exchange earnings. Its external reserves have also been declining, curbing the central bank’s ability to prop up the currency. Onadele, who once worked as chief dealer at the Nigerian unit of Citigroup Inc, said, “The availability of this FX futures product reduces, if not eliminates, the need to hoard FX and front-load on FX requirements. Foreign-portfolio investors tracking value will buy the futures; so will foreign direct investors and long-term borrowers in foreign currency.” Nigeria operates a system of multiple exchange rates in a bid to control demand for dollars. The system, criticised by the International Monetary Fund, has kept the official rate at about N305 per dollar. It uses this to supply cheap foreign exchange to government departments and select companies, including fuel importers. It created an importers and exporters window in 2017, in which the naira was allowed to weaken, and has been steady at 360 against the greenback, while forward rates suggest the local unit will weaken to 398.94 by the end of June. There is also the Nafex rate, which references the interbank rate, and another set at regular auctions. The naira weakened 0.5 per cent to 362.10 per dollar as of 2:58pm in Lagos on Thursday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 