Samson Folarin The Caretaker Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers in Lagos State, Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo, has reacted to the criticism that greeted his invitation to an event at the University of Lagos, Akoka. MC Oluomo, who travelled to Abuja and did not attend the student programme, said the organisers knew why they invited him. The University of Lagos had been attacked on the social media for inviting the transport union leader to the campus. On Twitter, in particular, many had wondered why MC Oluomo was honoured with an invitation when a former presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore, was barred from addressing students when he was invited for a similar gathering a few weeks earlier. Checks by our correspondent revealed that the event was organised by the National Association of Geography Students, UNILAG chapter. READ ALSO: After barring Sowore, UNILAG union invites MC Oluomo Aside from MC Oluomo, several other top officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation were invited for the programme. One of the top aides of MC Oluomo, who spoke to The PUNCH, said he did not attend or send a representative. MC Oluomo’s aide, Jimoh Buhari, said he could not attend the event because he travelled to Abuja for an emergency meeting. Buhari said, “I don’t know the reason people are going against the invitation because the people who invited him knew what they wanted him to say. “If he had gone there and said something wrong, then the critical reactions would have been justified. “Is it a crime not to be educated? Should people who did not go to school go and commit suicide? “I think that if someone did not go to school and has a large following, it is enough reason for people to invite him to occasions. “Those who invited him for the event had a strong reason for doing it. “People are judging MC Oluomo based on hearsay. You don’t judge a book by its cover. “We are also making efforts to change the negative impression people have about him.”