Afeez Hanafi A 27-year-old commercial motorcyclist popularly known as okada rider, Mohammed Tukur, has run of luck after he was caught with an identity card of a late naval officer in the Mushin area of Lagos. Tukur had reportedly ridden his motorcycle on Agege Motor Road against the traffic and was arrested by the police. To evade arrest, he identified himself as a naval officer but the policemen did not bulge as he was taken to the station. City Round learnt that Tukur claimed to be serving at Naval Dockyard, Victoria Island, which turned out to be false after his details were sent to the military authorities for verification. “The suspect was intercepted wearing military camouflage trousers on Friday, July 5, 2019. He had earlier claimed to be serving onboard NNS Aradu, Naval Dockyard, Victoria Island. At the time of the arrest, he was alleged to have involved in traffic offences with a motorcycle. “He presented a Nigerian Navy identity card with ID number, 2041/04 and service number Seaman (SM) X34740. This aroused suspicion leading to his arrest by the police personnel on patrol,” a source told our correspondent. The source added that an officer from the Provost Office of the Nigeria Armed Forces Resettlement Centre, Oshodi, identified Tukur to be an impostor. The suspect told the police that the ID card belonged to his late boss whom he worked with in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The okada rider said he left Port Harcourt with the ID card following his boss’ death and decided to use it in Lagos to avoid paying levies to louts. He said, “My late boss gave me the ID card to use it whenever I wanted to pick his children at school. After he died, I continue to use the ID card. I use it to scare agberos (louts) in Lagos from collecting money from me. I know it is an offence. I am very sorry.” A police prosecutor, Inspector Koti Aondohemba, brought the suspect before an Ogba Magistrates’ Court on five counts bordering on impersonation. The charge re ad in part, “That you, Mohammed Tukur, on July 5, 2019, around 3am, on Agege Motor Road, Mushin, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did unlawfully possess a navy identity card, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 330(d) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015. “That you, Mohammed Tukur, on the same date, time and place, in the aforementioned magisterial district, did forge a navy identity card, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 363(a) (b) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty and elected summary trial. The presiding magistrate, Mrs M. O. Tanimola, admitted him to bail in the sum of N100,000 with a surety in the like sum. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    