In this interview with IFEANYI ONUBA, the Director-General, Industrial Training Fund,  Joseph Ari, talks about the soaring unemployment among graduates, and a lot of opportunities that exist in professional trade areas, among others The ITF conducted an assessment of skills gap in six critical sectors of the economy. What were the findings from that assessment? On the assessment of skill gaps in six critical sectors of the national economy, what we did as an institution was to let other players in the industry be aware of where the gap exists. This is what I refer to as underemployment. From the assessment, we were able to find that under-employment was even very devastating to our national life. In one of the six sectors, construction, we found that 19.7 per cent gap exists.  That is, jobs of 19.7 per cent are available in the construction industry, but we do not have qualified Nigerians with the requisite skills to fill those gaps. The study was aimed at providing information to players of industries and commerce in public and private sectors. For public sector, it will assist them in policy formulation. For private sector, they should be able to know where to train in order to fill the gaps. The document we submitted to the Federal Government identified many sectors with problems which, if we pay serious attention to, the issue of unemployment would be a thing of the past. These include transportation, agriculture and the services sector. We were able to bring out 13 programmes from these sectors. In agricultural sector, for instance, we are going to have four programmes from it. We were able to send 60 of our staff to Galil International Management Institute to study all the agricultural value chain. What role is the ITF playing to boost the level of capacity in the agricultural sector, particularly in the area of post-harvest management? We have 60 staff that just returned from Israel where they trained in post-harvest management, manure production, international marketing and they are well qualified. From the list of our reservoir of experts from the institution, we will go into Green House technology, under the agricultural value chain. Agriculture is the main stake of our approaches. We have not forgotten transportation which has four components. The approach to it is contained in the study we presented to the Federal Government. Before long, we would be able to carry out this. Under the agriculture sector, we have what is called livestock production. Essentially, this is for the breeding of goats and sheep, and it is being planned under the agricultural value chain. What is your policy with regards to providing funds to participants?  Are there financial institutions involved in granting funds to participants after training them? Giving starter packs is part of our initiative. Hitherto, we discovered that training Nigerians and leaving them to go like that did not yield the desired result. We brought in the initiative of giving them the start-up packs; the tools to work with and we discovered from monitoring and evaluation process that it yielded the desired result. We brought in SMEDAN, our sister agency, so that when we train the trainees we try to form them into cooperatives and train them on entrepreneurial skills.  If they are cooperating, then we go over to the Bank of Industry, another sister agency, to see how they can access some soft loans without the usual hurdles. Again, we are discussing with government to see how we can fine-tune the aspect of capital for trainees so that they can set up a very concrete service. This journey is one that we need to keep on moving until we overcome the challenge of unemployment. We should have it at the back of our minds that the white collar jobs are unavailable, they are  very scarce to come by,  bearing in mind that our universities and other higher institutions of learning continue to churn out graduates on yearly basis. Today, there is hardly a household in Nigeria that does not have a graduate.  Faced with growing population, we need to tackle the issue of skills development head on. We need cooperation of the media to sensitise the people on the consciousness of skills acquisition.  Gone are the days when skills were regarded as the three Ds – dirty, dangerous, and dreaded. Skills are what will make the nation’s economy to grow.  It’s with skills that we can build infrastructure. It’s with skills that we can develop the national economy. What monitoring and evaluation mechanism has the ITF put in place to assess performance of its successful trainees? In terms of monitoring and evaluation to check the trainees for the purpose of tracking progress; yes, we do it.  We continually track their activities and operations.  From monitoring and evaluation, we have been able to get the number of those trained. That is why we were able to summarise that in the last two years, we were able to target 450, 000 Nigerians. We continually have train the trainer courses for them, mentoring and advising them together with SMEDAN on the ways to go in order to set up their businesses and make a meaningful life out of it. What is the level of support you are getting from the state governments in the area of skills acquisition? On support from the government, we are taking 300 trainees from every state of the nation including the Federal Capital Territory. For example, if we go to Kogi State, we would pick 300 young men and women and we would ask the state government that these are your citizens, give us the means. So we do an assessment and then the recruitment process is very transparent. We make sure that the 300 persons to be trained are divided to each 20 of the local government area appropriately and at the end of the day, we ensure that all of them get start-up packs to set up their businesses. Our desire is that, even if out of these 300, about 200 are given starter packs; it means we are going somewhere. That is why we appeal to the media to let the government and other critical stakeholders understand that this issue of unemployment is a canker worm that is staring every Nigerian in the face; and we need all hands on deck to check the menace. We have made appeal to the state governments, that in addition to these 300 youths, the state government may say add up another 300 and take care of the start-up packs and the stipend to pay alongside.  This has been happening in some states and I commend those states that have really come out to pay solidarity to the ITF in this direction. The issue of unemployment in our country has become so significant. We need all hands on deck. We need to harmonise our actions to take concrete steps and we need to declare a state of emergency on matters of skills development otherwise we would be sitting on a time bomb. I appeal to stakeholders both in private and public sectors to join hands with the ITF so that we would be able to take our young men and women off the streets. If Nigeria does not equip young men and women on the streets with skills, we will be dealing with many vices such as kidnapping, armed robbery, prostitution, etc.  An idle mind is the devil’s workshop. Quality is the key to acceptability of a product. What role is ITF playing in ensuring that your trainees conform to best standards? In line with the Federal Government’s policy on ease of doing business, we have a handshake with Standards Organisation of Nigeria with regards to standards of the products of our trainees. We ensure they are up to international best standards. So we have this agreement with SON to ensure that the products of our trainees stand the test of time in terms of standards and certification. We hope that before long, when key challenges associated with the whole gamut of production such as challenge of power supply, which borders n hands-on skills, when these issues are overcome; you will find out that the production level will equally come down. Are there plans to introduce skill training into the primary schools curriculum to prepare the students at formative stage of their education career and prepare their minds into other options apart from the white collar jobs? We have made several advocacies and I want to once again reiterate the fact that the curriculum of technical vocational education should be revisited.  We should have a case where we incorporate Technical Vocation and Training in the primary school level in order to catch the young early. To showcase this, the ITF has taken the lead by ensuring that we started the curriculum at our ITF staff school which is located at our headquarters in Jos.  Due to innovations and initiatives we brought into the school, today the school is a WAEC centre. From kindergarten to primary and then secondary school, premium is paid to the issue of TVET.  We call on all industry players and government to include in educational curriculum TVET from outset in primary secondary and other arms of the educational sector.  That way, our people will grow up with technically-inclined mind-set than place a lot of premium on paper qualifications. Paper qualification is good but it may not be able to solve the infrastructural problem and challenges of our country.  We have seen that many nations of the world today adjudged developed nations are where they are on account of skills acquisitions. The ITF has a modern skill training centre in Abuja with five departments:  electronics, computer networks, Information and Communication Technology, facility management, and both western and Nigerian culinary skills. These are modular training models which we incorporated from experience obtained from developed nations of the world.    ITF is one of the few agencies that are ISO-compliant as of now.  We are training the trainees on international marketing as part of international marketing and agricultural value chain. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 