’Femi Asu METKA, the business unit of Greece-based Mytilineos S.A, an international contractor and industrial manufacturing group, has reaffirmed its commitment to supporting Nigeria’s power sector. The Managing Director, METKA Power West Africa, Evangelos Kamaris, gave the assurance at the inauguration of a 7.1-megawatts solar hybrid power plant in Bayero University Kano. Kamaris was quoted in a statement as saying, “METKA believes strongly in Nigeria and the vision of its leadership in the power sector, championed by President Muhammadu Buhari. “As a core value, we strive for constant business excellence, balancing economic growth and sustainable development, and we will continue to support the efforts of government in the development of the Nigerian electricity market until the nation achieves stable and reliable power supply.” The BUK power project is part of the Energising Education Programme – a Federal Government intervention focused on developing off-grid dedicated independent power plants and rehabilitating existing distribution infrastructure to supply clean, safe and reliable power to 37 federal universities and seven affiliated university teaching hospitals. According to the statement, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, commended METKA during the inauguration for its strategic partnership and brilliant execution. He was quoted as saying that the project would impact thousands of students and other members of the university community as well as enhancing the quality of teaching, research and learning. METKA said it was in February 2018 awarded the Engineering Procurement and Construction contract to deliver hybrid solar plants to four Nigerian universities, namely BUK; Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka; Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun; and Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. The statement said, “Under the terms of reference, METKA will provide full EPC services, including power generation plants, street lighting and training centres, as well as operation and maintenance services, to the universities. “In total, 7.5MW of off-grid hybrid power will be installed, incorporating the award-winning EXERON technology and the latest developments in mini-grid design. Over 100 skilled Nigerians are currently employed across all four projects sites.” The company said it had a project portfolio of over 15,000MW and successful projects across various countries in Europe, Middle East and Africa. According to the statement, the Energising Education Programme is being implemented in three phases, funded by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 