Etim Ekpimah and Deji Lambo One Kehinde Musa, who sent his enstranged lover, Rasheedat Animashaun, a suicide text message after she ended their relationship, has allegedly committed suicide at his residence, No. 56 Modele Street, Surulere, Lagos State. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Thursday that the deceased locked himself in his room and drank an insecticide suspected to be Sniper, adding that the bereaved family, whom Rasheedat had informed of the suicide note, found Musa unconscious in his room. He stated that the 25-year-old, died while being taken to hospital for treatment, adding that his remains had been deposited in the mortuary for autopsy. Elkana said, “On Wednesday, September 18, 2019, around 6.30pm, the Surulere Police Station received information that one Kehinde Musa, 25, of No. 56 Modele Street, Surulere, locked himself up in his room and drank a poisonous substance suspected to be Sniper. He was rushed to hospital but died on the way. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased had earlier sent a suicide text message to his ex-girlfriend, Rasheedat Animashaun, 21, informing her that he would take his life since she had decided to end the relationship. The said girlfriend promptly informed his family about the text message and they rushed to his house, broke the door and found him unconscious. He was rushed to hospital but was unable to make it. His corpse has been deposited in the mortuary for autopsy.” In another development, one Ebosie Ugochukwu has been arrested for allegedly stealing a Honda City saloon car with number plate KRD 755 in the Mushin area of the state. The PPRO said the personnel of the command, while acting on the complaint of the Chief Security Officer, Farest Mercantile Company Limited, Dominic Ukaegbu, regarding the missing car, arrested the suspect, while he was attempting to sell the vehicle. According to him, the suspect, who confessed to the crime during interrogation, will soon be charged. Elkana said, “On Sunday, September 15, 2019, around 8.35pm, one Dominic Ukaegbu, the CSO of Farest Mercantile Company Limited, Mushin, reported at the Mushin Police Station that one Honda City saloon car with number plate, KRD 755, belonging to the company, was removed from where it was parked. On the strength of the report, detectives from the Mushin Division launched a search for the stolen vehicle. “The vehicle was recovered on Western Avenue, in the Surulere area of Lagos. One Ebosie Ugochukwu was arrested, while negotiating to sell the stolen car at the rate of N400,000 only. The suspect has confessed to the crime and will be charged.” READ ALSO: Ogun cultists kill 15-year-old, herbalist Meanwhile, residents of the Banana Estate Phase One in the Ikorodu Local Government Area of the state, on Wednesday, repelled a seven-man gang, who tried to rob them. The residents, who had been facing a series of attacks from hoodlums, resorted to self-defence to frustrate the robbery operation before the arrival of cops from the Ijede Police Station. The Chairman of the Community Development Association, Banana Estate Phase One, Mr Adewale Kelvin, said residents of the area had been living at the mercy of the hoodlums as a result of bad roads between the estate and the Ijede Police Station. According to him, if the residents were to wait for the arrival of the police, the robbers would have taken full advantage of the situation to rob them from house to house. He stated that the effort of the police to access the area was often hampered by the bad roads, noting that the situation had always presented the hoodlums with the opportunity to rob the residents whenever they felt like. Kelvin said, “When some of our members called me around 12.32am that armed robbers were operating on Road ‘G’ and ‘C’ Link, and there was no possibility for the police to respond to the distress call at that time because of the bad roads, I had to mobilise our members. “I told them that it was time for everybody to come out and confront the robbers, that we could not allow the robbers to raid our estate at will. And before we knew it, almost 40 persons came out with weapons like sticks, cutlasses, knives and stones to confront the hoodlums. “Some police officers, who live among us, also joined us. The robbers had entered some of our members’ compounds, but they couldn’t carry out their mission because of the force we deployed in chasing them away. This year alone, I cannot count how many times they have invaded the area and robbed some of our members, including me.” Kelvin called for the establishment of a police station in the area to take care of the Banana Estate phases One and Two; God’s Time Estate, Liberty Estate, Mercy Land; Egbe-Laara, Ginti and other communities in the area, and save them from frequent armed robbery attacks. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Sexagenarian in court for stealing N14.4m property The PPRO commended the residents for their unity in confronting the hoodlums before the arrival of the police. “I commend members of the community for the love they show to one another. This is what we have been telling Nigerians that the security of lives and property is the responsibility of every citizen and not that of the police alone,” Elkana stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 