Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, on Saturday, commiserated with the Okonjo family and Ogwashi-Uku community on the death of the Obi of Ogwashi-Uku Kingdom, Prof. Chukuka Okonjo. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Okonjo, the father of a former Minister of Finance, Mrs Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala died on Thursday at 91. The governor’s condolence was conveyed in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika in Asaba. Okowa also commiserated with the Umu Obi Obahai Royal Family over the death of the renowned academic, international public servant and an accomplished traditional ruler. READ ALSO: Xenophobia: Our South African classmates bully, tell us to leave their country – Nigerian pupils He noted that the late monarch was a renowned Professor of Mathematics who devoted his life and time to the promotion of peaceful coexistence and development of education in several parts of the world. The governor said that late Okonjo taught as a secondary school teacher, university lecturer and international public administrator. He described the deceased as a world-class public servant whose love for education was unparalleled and accounted for the successes he recorded everywhere he worked. Okowa said, “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I mourn the passing of a renowned academic, international public servant and traditional ruler of repute. “Apart from being the King of Ogwashi-Uku, I believe that the late Chukuka Okonjo will be remembered for his role in refocusing tertiary education in Ghana. “It was in the course of this that he developed the double intake system, designed to achieve a significant increase in student enrollment rates in Ghana which later earned him the highest civil national award from the Government of Ghana. “The award, conferred on him in 2016 by President John Dramani Mahama, was in recognition of his distinguished contributions to that country’s education system. “As Director of the Regional Institute for Population Studies at the University of Ghana, Legon, Accra, Okonjo installed the first African population information network. “This is popularly known as the Population Information and Documentation System for Africa (POSA), valued at 350,000 dollars,” Okowa said. The governor also paid tribute to the deceased’s royal contribution to peace and development, particularly his significant role in ensuring peaceful co-existence between the people of Ogwashi-Uku and their neighbours. “My condolences also go to his wife of 66 years, Prof. Kamene Okonjo and former Finance Minister, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and her siblings, on the passing of their beloved father and renowned academic. “I pray that Almighty God will comfort the family and grant the deceased eternal rest and reward his good virtues.” (NAN)