Satellite broadband firm, YahClick, says it has connected over 700 schools in Nigeria to the internet in the last two years. YahClick Vice President for Sales in Africa, Michael Brown, told the News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos on Tuesday that the broadband connectivity was in collaboration with the Universal Service Provision Fund. Brown said that the Federal Government sponsored an annual grant that paid for the connectivity as there were many of the schools that did not have the means to get connected. He said that the connection was made possible through the company’s cost-effective satellite connectivity. READ ALSO: 2020 Budget: Buhari sends MTEF /FSP to National Assembly The vice president said that the firm had border-to-border coverage in Nigeria and was seeing that the increase in connectivity translated into real benefits particularly for remote areas in Nigeria. According to him, YahClick’s connectivity has benefited the civil service, healthcare and, in particular, education. “We are making immense contribution. From a government partnership perspective, we are very active with the Universal Service Provision Fund in its goal to improve connectivity and access to information. “Access to information and services in rural and underserved areas of the country is of course very important for learning. “So we are working with our partners to find more solutions and how to continue servicing them with the solution that works for the both of us,” he said. The vice president said that rural areas had less Internet connection because the traditional terrestrial-based operators – Global System for Mobile communications, GSM operators – would not want to go to such areas as there were no commercial benefits. According to him, it is very difficult for GSM operators to have solutions in an area that does not have connectivity because it is too expensive. “The beauty of satellite is that it has instant connectivity and we can cover everywhere. And that is our strongest selling point. There is no other connectivity mechanism that can connect in those areas. “We are bringing faster broadband speed with our new satellite. We are constantly reducing prices. Brown said that YahClick was also involved in a number of projects with the military to ensure national coverage. He added that the company was having talks with the police force for connection and helping to change how they communicated with each other through the ecosystem. “So we are looking at different police stations, customs and border control and obviously with the government on the education side,” Brown said. (NAN)