Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Standards Organisation of Nigeria says it has intercepted galvanised roofing sheets and aluminium coils worth about N500m in Owerri and Okigwe, Imo State. The organisation said the interception was in furtherance of its onslaught on the sale and manufacture of substandard roofing sheets in the country. In a statement on Sunday, SON said the raid was carried out on warehouses at the two locations operated by Prossy Nigeria Limited. The Director General of SON, Osita Aboloma, who was represented by Dele Omolawon as the enforcement team leader was quoted to have said on-the-spot tests on the galvanised roofing sheets showed that they did not meet the requirements of the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standard. He stated that the galvanised roofing sheets intercepted in Owerri failed to meet the minimum value standard prescribed in the NIS. He added that in Okigwe, the impounded coils used for the manufacturing of galvanised roofing sheets showed a non-conformance and fell below minimum requirements. Aboloma said SON’s resolve was to rid the nation of substandard products with its focus presently on roofing sheets due to safety concerns and economic losses being experienced by unsuspecting consumers of the products who had complained to the organisation. He said the exercise was part of a nationwide surveillance programme to locate and mop up substandard roofing sheets to ensure that only good quality roofing sheets that met the minimum requirements of the NIS were displayed in the open market or stocked in warehouses. Aboloma said Nigerians should seek expert advice when purchasing roofing sheets or visit the nearest SON office in the 36 states of the federation for advice. He also urged importers and manufacturers to adhere strictly to the standards to avoid product confiscation, destruction and possible prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   