Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka has attributed the many unresolved murder of many high profile Nigerians to corrupt forces. He cited the killing of a former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Bola Ige in December, 2001 and asked President Muhammadu Buhari to produce the report of the investigation he ordered. Speaking in Abuja on Monday at the 2019 International Anti-Corruption Day organised by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in collaboration with Nigeria Shippers’ Council, the playwright also called for the sensitisation of the society in the fight against corruption as well as stiffer penalties for looters of public funds. He stated, “We have a phenomenon of unsolved murders and we know for a fact that some of them are the result of corrupt forces. A notorious example: A former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice in the country, Bola Ige was assassinated in his bedroom. It wasn’t a political affair, political rivalry and contestation. “He was killed, you know, by the forces of corruption and so this compels one to ask what has happened to the investigation ordered by the President of the country into those high profile murders.” “If we do not solve some of these murders, we cannot get into the heart, into the core of the corruption in this country and this involves also the authorized and constitutional agency of open society such as the judiciary,” Soyinka said. President Muhammadu Buhari in his address reiterated the commitment of his administration to the war against corruption. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Dingyadi, described the summit, which was organised with a special focus on the country’s maritime and transport sectors as a step in the right direction. He noted that the initiative complemented the various programmes being implemented by his administration to block leakages and improve transparency in all sectors, with the aim of boosting revenues in critical sectors of the economy. Speaking on the theme: “Zero Tolerance to Corruption: A Clarion Call,” the acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, regretted that corruption has ”created multi-dimensional crises across the globe, put families in deprivation, poverty and exposed individuals to unexpected insecurities leading to frustration and sufferings.” READ ALSO: Millions of Nigerians not bothered about Sowore’s rearrest —Presidency Magu restated the readiness of the EFCC to battle corruption to its knees in the country, citing the commission’s victory in the case involving a former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, as a pointer to the agency’s relentless determination to ensure that the corrupt did not go unpunished. He said, “The cumulative value of recoveries by the commission runs into hundreds of billions of naira, millions of dollars and other foreign currencies. In the Port Harcourt Zone of the EFCC, a total of 244 trucks were forfeited to the federal government owing to illegal oil bunkering activities in the region.” “Former military chiefs and civil servants have also been convicted, as well as many illegal oil bunkerers in the Niger Delta.  For the records, we secured the following convictions in the last four years: 2015 – 103; 2016 – 189; 2017 -190; 2018 -312 and 2019 (as at January to November) – 1,070 and still counting,” Magu stated.