Daud Olatunji Residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, have raised concerns over heaps of refuse in many parts of the metropolis. The heaps of refuse were indiscriminately dumped on the median barriers of the roads in many parts of the state capital. Moving round some parts of the state capital, it was observed that almost all the median barriers of the roads were not spared of the heaps of refuse dumped by the residents. Some of the residents who spoke with our correspondent expressed worry over the development and the likely attendant result of the action. Wale Adebayo, a resident of Lafenwa, lamented that the heaps of refuse had made their goods in the market,  especially the edible goods, unsafe for consumption. Mrs Iyanda Kuforiji complained that people decided to dump refuse on the median barrier of the road because there was no dumping site in their areas. However, the newly-established Ogun State Waste Management Authority has allayed the fears of the residents over the development. OGWAMA in a statement signed by its Press Officer, Mr Rotimi Oduniyi, said the authority would carry out a “special waste disposal operation”. He said the OGWAMA was determined to deal with the expected increase in waste during the festive period. The statement read in part,  “The special waste disposal operation which has the blessing of the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, will see massive deployment of waste disposal equipment to all the nooks and crannies of the state. “The waste collectors, sweepers and managers will be on duty throughout the period, thereby forfeiting the holidays for the success of the special operation. “We therefore enjoin inhabitants and visitors to the state during this festive season and the period of the special waste disposal operation to cooperate with OGWAMA officials by dumping their refuse in waste bins and receptacles scattered throughout the state for effective service delivery.” The waste authority said it would soon unfold new waste disposal strategies that will make Ogun State one of the cleanest in the country.Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 