Ademola Babalola, Ibadan A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, Rotimi Ajanaku, in Ibadan on Sunday described the national leader of the party and a former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as a relevant factor in the actualisation of Yoruba unity and agenda ahead of the 2023 general elections. Ajanaku also admonished Yoruba traditional rulers to stay away from active politics and any act that could tarnish their respect, dignity and integrity. He stated this in a statement on Sunday by his media aide, Mr Adebowale Adeoye. While making clarifications on many issues relating to the future of Yoruba as an ethnic group in the present Nigeria and as a nation in the future, he described Tinubu as an indispensable catalyst to the actualisation of Yoruba agenda in 2023 and beyond. The statement read, “As Asiwaju Odo Oodua (Oodua Youths Leader), it becomes imperative that I speak on the issues affecting the South-West states and Oodua agenda ahead of the 2023 as well as unwarranted discussion on Tinubu’s presidential ambition, subsequent attacks on his person by some uninformed people and those planted by antagonists to draw the progress and advancement of South-West geopolitical zone backward. “Can anyone tell me the essence of teaming up against Tinubu when no one has actually established any of the baseless allegations raised by his accusers? “Should we allow few politicians to deprive Yoruba of our right just because of differences or rancour between them and Tinubu? How sure are we that it is not a case of rivalry, or jealousy? “I am not against the idea of criticising Tinubu, but there is the need to make whatever criticism they like to engage in, to be constructive. We shouldn’t tolerate baseless and damaging criticism at this time.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 