Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi A Nigerian and Lead Consultant, Nuel Mark and Partners, Mr Emmanuel Mark, has been designated as the Senior Right of Way Professional of the International Right of Way Association. The IRWA Nigeria Chapter 84, said Mark, who is its immediate past president, is the first professional to have been so designated SR/WA in Africa by the IRWA. The association said the SR/WA designation was special as it reflected an evidence of professional accomplishment. The Interim Chief Executive Officer, IRWA, Daniel Stekol, said SR/WA was the prestigious professional designation granted to those right-of-way professionals who had achieved professional status through experience, education, and examination. While congratulating him on the feat, Stekol stated that Mark would be “walking the stage in Minneapolis at the awards and recognition luncheon to celebrate this accomplishment.” Mark said he was excited to be the first member of Chapter 84 to obtain the SR/WA designation in Nigeria and Africa. He said the certification stood for the highest standard of excellence in the right-of-way profession. “It means a world of impeccable disposition for me. To be the first to be designated SR/WA in my chapter, in Nigeria and indeed the African continent as a whole is phenomenal and a defining moment for me,” Mark said. Speaking on the future of the right-of-way chapter in Nigeria, the immediate past president noted that there was a need to redefine what the right-of-way profession meant. He said, “We must work towards enlightening professionals all over Africa about the IRWA and the significance of the profession in the development of infrastructure real estate in Africa. “It is no longer just about creating right of way for highways and utilities; the profession has become more complex. We have become more flexible and adaptable with the changes in our practice.” Mark said he envisioned a chapter that would be more proactive in all aspects of the profession. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 