Adeniyi Olugbemi, Sokoto A northern youth group has advocated power shift to the southern part of the country after the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure in 2023. The group, Tinubu North West Ambassador, said that for the sake of national cohesion, peace and unity, the next President of Nigeria should come from the southern part of the country. The national coordinator of the group, Alhassan Muhammad, who spoke to journalists shortly after the sensitisation rally in the North-West region, said the rally was to garner support for power shift to the southern part of the country. He also described the position of some prominent northern leaders insisting on retaining power in the north come 2023 as unfortunate, saying Nigerians should not support them. Alhassan said, “It is only ideal for political leaders and other stakeholders to work and support the emergence of presidential candidates of southern extraction from all major political parties in the country. “We are advocating a candidate of southern extraction that share the same ideology with Buhari and have requisite experience to lead Nigeria to the promised land. “We, as a group, have decided to throw our support behind the former Lagos State governor and a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu.” The group added, “Tinubu is one of the very few progressives that have distinguished himself and shown commitment to the progress and development of Nigeria. “Tinubu played  key role in ensuring the success of the APC  and President Muhammadu Buhari in both 2015 and 2019 general elections because of his firm belief in the policies and programmes of the APC for Nigeria.” The group also commended Buhari for his achievements in agricultural transformation, security and other developmental goals. READ ALSO: 2023 and the clamour for an Igbo presidency “President Buhari has brought about the needed change in Nigeria through diversification of the nation’s economy, calming the security situation and empowering youth and women through the social insurance programme of his government. “We as northern youths and indeed Nigerians are happy about the shift of attention to agriculture in Nigeria due to the effort of President Muhammadu Buhari, who has remained focused and consistent with the goal of attaining food sufficiency and food security in the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 