Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The National Youth Service Corps has asked the police and operatives of the Department of State Services to arrest and prosecute some robbers who wore corpers’ uniform when they attacked commuters in Okene, Kogi State, last Friday. The NYSC demanded that the robbers be apprehended and prosecuted. It added that it would also “enforce the weight of the law on film-makers and comedians” who used its uniform as costumes without permission. The scheme’s Director of Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, who stated this on Tuesday, noted that the NYSC Director-General, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, had ordered corps members to always go about with their identity cards. Some robbers had been reported to have attacked a bus conveying the Ifeanyi Ubah Football Club’s players and coaching crew, during which the driver was shot. The robbers attacked the club’s bus which was heading for Kano State for a Nigeria Professional Football League match against Jigawa Golden Stars and killed the driver. Some members of the team were also injured and taken to a hospital for treatment. The NYSC said on Tuesday that the robbers must be arrested and made to face the full wrath of the law. It said, “While the management sincerely commiserates with the football team over the attack which resulted in severe bodily harm to the bus driver who was shot and some team members who also sustained injuries, it wishes to dissociate the NYSC from the dastardly attack as corps members neither bear arms nor carry out stop-and-search. “We reiterate that under the NYSC Act CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, it is a criminal offence for any person who is not a member of the corps to put on the NYSC uniform or any part of it. “We therefore call on law enforcement agencies, especially the police and the DSS to immediately apprehend and prosecute any unqualified person caught in the NYSC uniform since such person poses a big threat to national security. “In the same vein, the corps will spare no effort in shielding the uniform from unwarranted abuses by some film-makers and comedians who employ the NYSC uniform as costumes, without first seeking express permission from the scheme to do so. Henceforth, the full weight of the law will be brought to bear on such culprits.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 