Afeez Hanafi Five policemen attached to the Akinpelu Police Division, have been detained for the murder of a 27-year-old fun-seeker, Maliki Mohammed, at a club on Balogun Street, Oshodi, Lagos. The cops are Inspectors Orubu Olusola, Apalowo Ola, Kasai Sule and Sergeants Momoh Ogwuche and Adoga Collins. Sunday PUNCH gathered that the police team had gone to the club on Friday over a complaint lodged by one Abibat Makinde who claimed she was assaulted at the facility. In an attempt to effect arrest, some hoodlums reportedly confronted the men who resorted to the use of firearms, killing Mohammed and injuring two others in the process. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident in a statement on Saturday, said the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, directed that the policemen be detained. “The Incident happened on November 29, 2019 at about 8.30pm which led to the death of one Maliki Mohammed, 27 years old. Two other persons sustained injuries. In their statement, the team said they were at the club in response to a complaint made by one Abibat Makinde of Olaore Street, Mafoluku, Oshodi, that she was assaulted in the club. “While trying to effect arrest, they were attacked by some hoodlums which necessitated their use of firearms. This, however, fell short of the provision of Force Order 237 which defined the circumstances in which a police officer will be justified to use his firearms and the use of force. “The officers involved are already facing internal disciplinary proceedings known as orderly room trial at the command’s Provost Department. If found guilty, they will be handed over to a conventional court for prosecution.” Elkana said the station’s Divisional Police Officer, crime officer and operations officer were issued official queries for lack of supervision, adding that 11 suspects were arrested in connection with the attack on the police team. “The commissioner of police has ordered a thorough investigation into the case. The CP empathised with the families of the deceased and the injured persons. He called on the good people of Lagos State to remain calm as justice will not only be done but will be seen to be done,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 