Olalekan Adetayo and Okechukwu Nnodim Some irate Nigerians on Friday attacked the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, in Spain. He was attacked at an event on climate change held in Madrid, Spain. A source close to the former Rivers State Governor told one of our correspondents that Amaechi’s attackers were members of the Indigenous People of Biafra based in Spain. The minister disclosed the development himself on his Twitter handle, @ChibuikeAmaechi. But he did not state that his attackers were IPOB members nor disclose who they were. Amaechi however said Spanish policemen succeeded in stopping his attackers before they could hurt him. The minister wrote, “Some minutes ago, I was attacked by a few misguided Nigerians while on national assignment at a climate change event in Madrid, Spain. “They were quickly repelled by the Spanish police before they could do any harm. “I am fine. I was not hurt. Thanks for your support and prayers.” Amaechi’s tweet was greeted with mixed reactions from his followers, as some sympathised with him, while others criticised the minister. Sanmi John, said, “We didn’t support, neither are we praying for you. This is the pitiable condition you and your party have turned this country to. We shall overcome!” Bankole Abe asked, “What are you doing in a climate change event? Are you the Minister of Environment? Abeg pack well (sic).” READ ALSO: NPA MD petitions IG over attack at NASS But Peterclaver said, “Are they angry that he is developing the railway service in the country? Will that not impact on the poor masses when completed?” Also, Promise Israel, said, “As long as Nigeria is being ruled like a place without the rule of law, this will continue to happen.” The immediate past Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Enweremadu, in August confirmed a similar assault on him by some members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in Nuremberg, Germany. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 