Omojuyigbe Oluwatosin Family and friends of the 28-year-old Moradeun Balogun, who was stabbed on Monday by armed robbers and allegedly denied treatment by a Lagos hospital, turned out at the candlelight service to mourn her departure on Thursday. The friends chanted dirges during the service held at her parent’s house as they called for justice for the departed podcast host. PUNCH Metro learnt that Moradeun was stabbed in the neck by the robbers in the Gbagada area while returning from work. It was gathered that the victim was rushed to the R-Jolad Hospital, where she was allegedly not attended to because a police report was not presented by the good Samaritans, who came to her rescue. However, the hospital refuted the claim that the victim was not attended to because of the non-presentation of a police report, adding that she was assessed by two doctors before she was referred to the Gbagada General Hospital for vascular surgery. Moradeun’s fiancé, Bassey Ndiokho, however, told our correspondent on Thursday that the hospital did not attend to the victim, but turned her back at the gate for not presenting a police report. He urged the management of the hospital to own up to its alleged act of negligence. He said, “Moradeun and I spoke on Monday around 6.30pm when she was getting ready to leave the office and the next thing was that I got a call around past 7pm from someone, who told me that she was robbed and stabbed, and that I needed to make my way to the hospital. “As I was going there, I got another call that they were taking her to the Gbagada General Hospital; I tried to remain calm and was following them up on my way, only for me to hear that she had died. “I learnt from the two men, who helped her, that she was robbed on her way to the bus stop and was crying for help. The two men helped her and took her to the R-Jolad Hospital and when I asked why they turned from R-Jolad to the general hospital, I was told that a police report was demanded by the hospital before she could be attended to and she was turned back because the report could not be presented. READ ALSO: Ondo killer cop arrested for murdering truck driver “So, they had to take a cab from R-Jolad to the general hospital, and on getting there, the doctors did all they could but she had lost a lot of blood and she died. “I want R-Jolad to be held accountable for its negligence; a young lady was at its doorstep crying for help and it turned her back because she did not have a police report. I want the management to own up that it was negligent. “I also want the government to be responsible and accountable in terms of security and put street lights where necessary, because I learnt that the area where she was robbed was notorious for armed robbery and other crimes, because the place is not lighted and it is high time the government did something about that area. They should put proper security check in place and make sure that the health sector is also accountable.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 