Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has launched a manhunt for the suspected killer of one Peter Nwala, who was stabbed to death for his alleged refusal to pay for a loaf of bread valued at N100. PUNCH Metro gathered that Nwala went to buy bread, fried egg and a cup of tea from a food vendor on the Egbe-Laisu Road in the Idimu area of the state, but while eating, complained that the bread tasted sour. He then refused to pay for the bread and this led to an argument between him and the yet-to-be-identified food vendor. In a bid to get him to pay, the food vendor was said to have sought the help of a Hausa man, who sells barbequed meat, popularly called suya, in the area, who allegedly stabbed Nwala in the back around 10pm on Monday, November 25, 2019. The injury sustained by Nwala from the attack reportedly led to his death, and the suspect fled the area and has been on the run ever since. Several reactions have been trailing the circumstances that led to Nwala’s death. A picture attached to the story on Instablog9ja showed some residents gathering at a junction suspected to be the scene of the incident. Another picture had the caption, “They stabbed the guy, now his dead all because of N100 bread, plz stay indoor if you stay around Egbe Laisu.” While some were against the alleged perpetrator of the crime, other blamed Nwala for causing his own death. One Hauwa Mahmoud, through her handle, hauwa_mahmoud, blamed the tragic incident on poverty, stating, “Poverty is our major problem in Nigeria.” Another commentator on Instagram, businessregistration_, said Nwala’s death would have been averted if he had paid for the food he bought, adding, “Oh nooo!!! He would have just paid to live another day! Rest in peace bro!” Similarly, ai_sha2031, blamed the deceased for acting arrogant after consuming the food, writing, “It is not even only poverty, d guy was arrogant. Instead of begging d seller dat he dsnt have money and he would pay, he started accusing for selling bad bread after he already ate all. Imagine, to top it all he took stick and started hitting d seller what for? Perhaps, he has been doing dis act with other people and go free and dis one was his last crime. Everyday for d thief one day for d owner.” However, @ouffgggjj refuted the claim that Nwala refused to pay after consuming the bread, adding that he only tasted it, but after realising that it was sour, he demanded that the bread should be changed. @ouffgggjj wrote, “That’s not what happened. He didn’t eat the bread; he tasted it and asked for it to be changed because it was bad.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said, “The suspect is on the run, we have launched a manhunt for him. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  