On behalf of the Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria, you recently called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to set up a judicial commission of enquiry to hear publicly and determine those responsible for the recent court invasion by the Department of State Services, has there been any development in that regard since the demand was made by the Body of SANs? The demand was made in my speech at the Supreme Court; what followed was a directive by the Attorney General of the Federation (Abubakar Malami, SAN), asking the DSS to send Omoyele Sowore’s file to his office. I wouldn’t know whether that is a reaction to the demand we had made, but the AGF has a duty to listen to his colleagues, public opinion and give appropriate advice to the President as the chief law officer of the federation. Some Nigerians felt the demand was either mischievous or naive as they believed that Buhari whom you urged to set up the commission must have sanctioned all that happened. How would you respond to that? Buhari is a human being. He should set up the judicial commission of enquiry to hear evidence in public. Those to constitute the commission will be Nigerians, and they will have their names and honour to protect so there is no reason to think Buhari will not set it up or that it will not work. Remember when Fela Anikulapo-Kuti alleged that the then military government was involved in a theft of about $60m oil money, a commission of enquiry headed by Justice (Ayo) Irikefe of the Supreme Court, was set up. Those who made the allegations were asked to give evidence; what result did we get? Fela arrived with a basket of fire and said the evidence was there. Nigerians are fond of making allegations without substance, without considering the facts that will establish or support the allegations being made. And if you look at my call for a commission of enquiry to be set up, it was predicated on the fact that the DSS was the agency said to have committed the offence, which took place in court. The police and DSS are one; they are all enforcement agencies. The military cannot be involved in it (enquiry); they are part of the Armed Forces of the country, so their independence cannot be guaranteed. The National Assembly is not equipped to conduct such an in-depth inquiry, so the only thing to do is to have a judicial commission of enquiry. At least there are judges who have honour in this country. There are men of integrity who can be relied upon by the people of this country. Whenever the commission sits, the evidence will be there for everyone to see. So, we will be able to judge what are truths and lies. That was the basis. So, it is unfair to accuse the body of being naïve; we are not. Many people believe that the Body of SANs has been too silent on crucial national issues. Major General Buhari (retd.) has been disobeying court orders since he came into office but the body has not been condemning those actions in the strongest of terms, why is that? That is not correct. First, the Body of SANs is part and parcel of the Nigerian Bar Association. The NBA is headed by a SAN. We contribute to the discussions and the matters that arise through the NBA, then of course, we don’t have to be on the street with placards; that is not our responsibility. Our responsibility is to provide reasonable arguments. No member of the press has come to ask the Body of SANs what we had done and didn’t get an answer from us. The body has been working; it does not have to publicise or announce what it is doing to journalists. We have many areas of contact; so, to say that we have done nothing is not correct. Interestingly, Buhari has a SAN as VP (Prof Yemi Osinbajo) and at least three other SANs in his cabinet – Minister of Works and Power, Babatunde Fashola; AGF, Malami and Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, what is their position to the statement made by the Body of SANs calling on the setting up of a judicial commission of enquiry? As far as I know, they have not made any statement of their own; we did not expect them to make any personal statements while they are serving in the government. If they disagreed with the position of the Body of SANs on the issue, maybe they would have made statements. The fact that they have not said anything to the hearing of anybody means, in my own view, that they did not oppose the position of the body. In any case, one must also remember that as members of the Federal Executive Council, there is what I used to know as cabinet responsibilities. You cannot begin to issue statements when you are in the cabinet without first giving your colleagues the opportunity to react to it at the cabinet meeting. It is not too late; it is just one week (after we made the statement), maybe they will issue a statement in the future. Or they may approach the powers that be to see what they can do about it, but they are clearly aware that what took place in the open court was unacceptable in any civilised society. At least, the Nigerian society is civilised enough to reject that type of behaviour. For people like us, it was a painful experience that such a thing happened during our time. READ ALSO: Despite AGF’s trial takeover, Sowore may spend festive period in detention What do you think about the open disdain for court judgments and rule of law exhibited by the Buhari regime, even with SANs, including Prof Yemi Osinbajo in his cabinet? We are all different people with different ways of doing things. One man’s way may not be another man’s way. What you are seeing now has been there since the day he assumed office. Buhari has completed his first term in office, is that not so? The majority of the things you are talking about took place before the last general elections, the Nigerian people elected him again. The Supreme Court has upheld the election of Buhari, and going by the results, he got the majority of lawful votes throughout the country. If they had been doing what the (people of the) country did not like, I’m sure they would not have elected him again. Why has the Body of SANs not held meetings with its members in the Buhari regime to tell them to do better? Members of the public are not in a position to know when we hold meetings with our people. There are many avenues for holding meetings with our people. We do not have to go to the market to show that we are meeting with seniors lawyers in government; we do not have to take photographs and show them to the world to say, “Look, we met today.” What is important is that the message of our profession and our stand on issues get to those serving in government and the authority they serve; that is what is important to us, not showing on the pages of newspapers or streaming on the screen that this is what we do. That is the way we look at it. So why have we not met at all? Who said we have not met at all? We have (met). But you cannot call the Vice President and say, “Mr Vice President, resign from Buhari’s government because you did this.” Nigerian people knew who Buhari was and they elected him, so what is the new position? Are we now to say Nigerians were wrong to have elected him? Is there any punishment that can be meted out to a member (of the Body of SANs) like Keyamo, who openly defends the actions of this regime that are considered as illegal? There is an old saying in law that the term called nuisance means different things in different places. What constituted a nuisance in Ikoyi, Lagos might not constitute a nuisance in the Ajegunle of those days. So what is it that Keyamo has said? Keyamo has just come into government; he has done nothing anybody can describe as being done against his will. He has been known to be an activist; an activist can be for or against any particular policy you put up. It does not mean that they must fight the government every day. If he is convinced that what Buhari is doing is right, he has the right to say so. Take the case of corruption, for example, I don’t know what to call Nigerians regarding that. They know there is corruption and that it is there, yet they cannot come out to give evidence. They will not criticise that; it is when someone is arrested for corruption that they will complain. What type of hypocrisy is that? Do you think the SANs in the Buhari regime should resign and not be part of a regime that lacks respect for rule of law and the judiciary? The issue of resignation of members of the cabinet in this government will arise when there is conflict of ideas, then those who feel that they don’t want to accept the policy can resign. But we have not yet investigated what is happening. Nigerians are not even asking questions as to why the whistle-blowing policy is not even working, otherwise are we saying that Nigerians everywhere do not have information to give? But we are not doing that because we seem to be enjoying the loot. I think the punishment for those found to be corrupt should not just be imprisonment and forfeiture of assets, it should include sanctions that will prevent them from participating in politics or holding public office. Until we cripple them by saying they must not hold any public office, they will still get to do whatever they want to do. If they are able to get money later, they will sponsor a political party and manoeuvre their way into office and then become kingmakers. A king made by a corrupt person must be corrupt. The leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife have spent over three years in detention in violation of court orders granting them bail. Do you think what the Buhari regime is doing is in the national interest? This is not a matter to which I can express my personal opinion. Buhari is the chief security officer of this country, which has about 200 million people. It is his duty to protect lives and property. El-Zakzaky has a special case, but if an order has been made for his release, and he is not released, his lawyers should know what to do. But if we recollect, this is the same couple who said there was no place to treat them in Nigeria and were taken to India. What was the report that came from India? At least from what we got from the press, they insisted they should be put in a five-star hotel in India and the Indian government was able to establish that he was planning to continue with what he was doing in Nigeria. My friend, this country belongs to you and me. I’m not saying a man should be detained without cause. But when the security and interests of 20 million people are at stake, then the government will be failing in its duty if it allows the rights of one or two persons to override the other interests. So it is not for me to say that what Buhari is doing is right or wrong, he is the best judge once it is about national interest or security in this country, at least, with respect to El-Zakzaky. Similarly, former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd.), has been held in detention since 2015 in defiance of court orders, including the ECOWAS Court, which declared his detention as illegal. What do you think Nigerians can do to make his regime democratic? I have reservations as to whether our country is a democratic country or not. We were all alive; we saw what happened during the (last general) elections. You saw the manipulations; you saw the fight to remain in power. I think we are a little bit far from being a democratic country; we are far from democracy. The British just had an election; I saw it on television. Three minutes after the poll was closed, they were able to release the forecast as to who would win the election. They did things the way they ought to be done. When you don’t do things the way they should be done, then you don’t expect any good result from your actions. So as regards the talks about democracy, I think they are political thoughts. Who is a democrat of this country? Which politician can put their hand on their chest and say in the last general elections, they did not spend money to buy votes? Which one of them can tell me that the money they spent came from the work they were doing before they became politicians? How? So these are the things we should look at. The interest of the country should be far above all other considerations and for now, our captain who can determine that, is the government of the day. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Sowore’s re-arrest, court invasion damaged Nigeria’s international reputation – ex-US envoy Hate Speech Bill, which some Nigerians believe is aimed at protecting public officials from criticisms and compelling unquestioned acceptance of all the policies of the Buhari regime, is being proposed. What do you think about the bill? That bill is not a government bill. In any case, I also do not agree with the death sentence that was mentioned there. What people are criticising is the death sentence. We have not got to the stage where we will kill someone because of what they said or did not say; that is not right in my view. But is it really a good thing for someone to pick up their pen and write deliberate falsehood about a person? For example, one of the former governors in one of the states in the South-West was quoted in the newspapers as saying Buhari was dead. Even when he (Buhari) came back (from London, UK), it was publicised that the man we saw was not Buhari, but a man from Saudi Arabia. They said he had been cloned. Are those things that statesmen should say? But for me, Hate Speech Bill is not even necessary. Not long ago, houses of some judges were raided by the DSS, did you feel at that time that the judiciary was in danger? The position of the constitution of this country remains that no one is above the law, so if a judge engages themselves in things that will make them liable to be arrested, they can be arrested. Our only position is that, “Look, if you are going to arrest them, do it in a civilised manner. Don’t use force. Judges have no guns, nothing. So do it in a civilised manner. Do it according to the law. Do not invade their houses at night.” Some Nigerians believe the NBA has become a shadow of its former self when it was feared by the regime in power at every point in time, what do you think happened? It has not become a shadow of its former self; that’s not correct. I was once the president of the NBA after the Port Harcourt crisis of 1992, when the NBA had a crisis for six years. When we finally resolve it, I was the first to be elected the president of the NBA at that time and we fought to bring the NBA back. The NBA has no arms and ammunition; we cannot even acquire them. We make proposals and suggestions to the government. We criticise but we do not do so in an abusive manner. We criticise in a mature manner. We (NBA) collaborate with other bodies and we hold workshops and seminars. And within us, we make contacts, so what do you expect the NBA to do more than that? It is a professional body, not a political party. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 