Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The Bayelsa State Government on Thursday criticised reports that the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had awarded the ownership of Soku oil wells to Rivers State. The reports had indicated that Justice Inyang Ekwo gave an order to cede the wells in a judgment he delivered on Monday in a suit instituted by Rivers State. The reports had it that the judge directed the National Boundary Commission to transfer the oil wells by correcting the error in its 11th edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria, which situated San Bartholomew in Rivers rather than Santa Barbara River as the boundary between Bayelsa and Rivers. It was also reported that the judgment of the Federal High Court was made to give effect to the decision of the Supreme Court, which supposedly directed the NBC to fix the boundary between Rivers and Bayelsa states at Santa Barbara River. But the Bayelsa State Government in a statement on Thursday said the Supreme Court had struck out the action brought before it by Rivers State on the ground that it was futile and premature to determine the boundaries of the two states without the NBC delineating the boundary between the two states. In the statement signed by its Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Arthur Seweniowor, Bayelsa said the apex court in Suit No. CS/106/2009 never made a specific order directing the NBC to delineate the disputed boundaries. He quoted Justice Galadima, who delivered the lead judgment, as saying, “It is on account of the foregoing and because of the technical nature of the dispute and the claims of the parties, this court finds that the NBC, as an authority vested with authorities and expertise know-how in dealing with this matter, should have, once and for all, conducted an exhaustive exercise of delineating the disputed boundary. Hence, the long-awaited 12th edition of the administrative map when completed soonest would have been of tremendous assistance in settling this lingering dispute. “In the light of the observations I have clearly expressed above, I do not feel comfortable to grant the declarations sought until the NBC concludes its exercise of delineation of disputed boundary to finality. It will be futile and premature to determine the boundary of the two states in the present circumstances. However, the appropriate order to be made in the prevailing circumstance is that of striking out the plaintiff’s suit and I so order accordingly.” Seweniowor said, “This was the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court which can be verified by anyone.” He added, “It is worthy to note that after the decision of the Supreme Court, the NBC, in the exercise of its statutory functions, commenced the efforts to exhaustively and finally resolve the boundary dispute between Rivers and Bayelsa states with the constitution of Joint Technical Committee on the Bayelsa/Rivers Interstate Boundary, the deputy governors of both states leading their respective state’s delegation. “After a couple of meetings of the aforesaid committee, on the 30th of January, 2013, the Rivers State delegation led by the then deputy governor, Tele Ikuru, formally announced the withdrawal of the state’s delegation from further deliberation and participation in the joint delimitation and demarcation exercises until certain conditions articulated by the deputy governor of Rivers State, were met, which amongst others, included the payment of all revenue from the disputed oil wells into an escrow account under the Accountant-General of the Federation. “It is therefore surprising that Rivers State could resort to instituting the action at the Federal High Court, Abuja against the NBC and without the knowledge and participation of Bayelsa State, and proceeded to obtain a judgment to the effect that the Oluasiri Oilfields/Oil wells, belong to Rivers State on the same unchanged facts and issues as was the case before the Supreme Court in Suit No. SC/106/2009.” The attorney general said Bayelsa was confident of its historical claim of ownership over the lands on which the oilfield  are located and had always expressed its willingness to fully participate in any joint delimitation and demarcation exercise in respect of the disputed boundary. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 