The Contributory Pension Scheme introduced by the Pension Reform Act in 2004 has continued to maintain a steady growth. It has reportedly made some appreciable progress in trying to address most of the shortfalls in the erstwhile pension system. According to the National Pension Commission, as of 30 September 2019, the pension industry membership had grown to 8.85 million participants, while the pension fund assets under management were valued at N9.58tn. The funds had been deployed in critical sectors of the economy, it was learnt. The commission noted that the number of retirees under the CPS as of 30 September 2019 amounted to 298,614. Out of that number, 227,400 retirees were on programmed withdrawal and 71,214 opted for annuity retirement option. Death benefits had been paid to 59,057 beneficiaries, the commission disclosed. It also stated that despite the achievements of the CPS, it was still not without its challenges. Acting Director-General, PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, said, “The Contributory Pension Scheme was established to address challenges bedevilling the erstwhile retirement benefit system (Pay as you/defined Benefit) in the public sector and Provident Fund/Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund in the private sector. “The erstwhile scheme was unsustainable and characterised by inefficiency, paucity of funds; inadequate budgetary provisions for salaries and pensions, opaque and cumbersome administrative structures, low coverage and ineffective regulation and supervision.” She said a major challenge was inadequate funding of the Retirement Bond Redemption Fund (for payment of the accrued rights of retiring Federal Government employees) and agitations by some agencies of government to pull out of the CPS. Other challenges were operational, arising from implementation hiccups, she said. She said the National Assembly, especially the Committee on Establishment and Public Service of the Senate and House of Representatives Committee on Pensions, remained key stakeholders in shaping the direction of the pension industry and keeping the momentum of the reform in the sector. The President, Pension Funds Operators Association of Nigeria, Mrs Aderonke Adedeji, said pension affected all groups of people. Those employed either by the private or public sector will give their best during their active years, knowing that they have a pension to fall back on in their retirement years, she noted. For the self-employed and informal workers, Adedeji said the pension savings were probably their only savings vehicle, thus helping to instill the discipline of long-term savings. She said that for the retired, it provided succour and dignity in their twilight years. For the unemployed, she said, the investments by the pension industry enabled the economy to grow and create jobs in the process. Adedeji said, “It is evident that a well-functioning, transparent and efficient pension system is critical for all groups of Nigerians and our nation at large. “A well-functioning pension industry will reduce the menace of corruption, because individuals will be assured that they have funds they can fall back on during their retirement years,” she said. According to her, for the first time in Nigeria’s history, it has a national pension scheme that works. “Retirees get paid on a monthly basis; no stories. For those who participated in the CPS and later lost their jobs, they are able to access up to 25 per cent of the funds pending when they find a new job,” she said. Former Director-General, PenCom, Ahmad Muhammad, said it was cogent to look at the potential issues that could jeopardise the growth of the pension industry. He said it was important for the Federal Government to prioritise the payment of accrued rights of retirees. “Although the government had been religiously paying the monthly pension contributions based on the old rates, it has not been able to meet up with the adequate and regular payment of accrued pension rights. “This is causing untold hardship and pain to many who have been waiting for years for the RSA to be funded appropriately. This is non-negotiable and we should constantly bring this up at every opportunity until these accrued rights are funded by the government.” He also worried about the clamour for amendments of the Act, which he said were often for frivolous reasons. While mentioning that it was relevant to amend some portions of the Act for the benefit of the contributors, he said these amendments should be well thought out. The Chairman, Establishment and Public Service, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, expressed concern about the Federal Government owing retirees accrued pension funds of over N400bn. “The committee has written a seriously worded letter to the Senate President, insisting that the Senate should take this up with Mr President to make sure this matter is addressed, otherwise it is one step forward, 10 steps backwards,” he said. He mentioned that the little funds the governors were releasing to clear the pension arrears while more workers were retiring was insignificant as it was not solving the problem. Before addressing the issue constitutionally, which could take a longer time, Shekarau said the Senate committee would help to facilitate a meeting with the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the National Economic Council, the governors with the pension operators, where they would be told the story of the pensioners’ sufferings. He said it was possible that President Muhammadu might not be aware of the huge debt as this might not have been disclosed to him. He said he was confident that Buhari would have addressed it if it was brought before him. Shekarau, who decried the state and local governments’ indebtedness to their retirees, blamed the attitude on the lack of political will to do things right. He recalled that when he was Kano State governor, he was the first state governor to implement the CPS in 2004, after the Pension Reform Act was signed into law. To deter the state governments from further owing their retirees, he said, “We will initiate appropriate amendments; this is very important, otherwise, the pensioners will be suffering.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com