Nike Popoola The Managing Director, ARM Life Plc, Mr Stephen Alangbo, has said that improved digital distribution channel and payment collection will help to boost the growth of life insurance companies in West Africa. He said this while speaking on the topic, ‘Life insurance business in West Africa,’ during the African Insurance Organisation life insurance seminar in Botswana. Alangbo said, “There is a rising need for African insurers to invest in broadening their distribution channels to gain access to more customers and different client segments. “Insurers should explore digital innovations to reach the unreached and leverage on smart phone digital technology. There is a need to embrace innovative payment solutions such as payroll deduction, mobile wallet, direct debits for seamless premium collections and engender customer convenience and satisfaction.” While quoting available figures, he said about $1.3bn in insurance premiums was generated by Western Africa between 2017 and 2018 where, Nigeria, Ghana, Cote d’voire and Cameroon accounted for over 80 per cent in a region of 16 countries. He said that it was cogent for the life insurers to invest in human capacity and talent development. According to him, insurers should be keen to strengthen their talent and skill base in areas such as actuarial and analytics, information technology, reserving for annuity contract liabilities, and risk-based pricing among others. He also said that operators needed to bundle risk products with fast moving products of other sector such as banks, telcos, Health Maintenance Organisations and Uber, to increase their fortunes. He added that products that were not fast selling due to cultural bias could be bundled with other products to grow the numbers. While mentioning an example, he said that “funeral plan sells in Ghana but does not sell in Nigeria.” He also mentioned that retirement savings and annuity products were the next cash cow of the West African life assurance market. Alangbo observed that most of the West African countries no longer had social security schemes for its citizens. According to him, savings culture is going on leeward trend due to adverse economic situation and increased cost of living in the sub-region. This, he added, created a high demand for annuity and retirement products. He said that insurers needed to increase expertise in this line of business. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 