’Femi Asu The Integrated Data Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, said it recorded a significant increase in its revenue base from N5.5bn in 2016, N7.6bn in 2017 to N19.03bn in 2018. This was disclosed by the Chairman of the company and Chief Operating Officer, Upstream Directorate of the NNPC, Mr Roland Ewubare, at the company’s 23rd annual general meeting held in Abuja on Tuesday, according to a statement. The statement by the acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, NNPC, Mr Samson Makoji, said Ewubare noted that the subsidiary had become self-reliant and would not require any subvention from the corporate headquarters anymore. “If anything, IDSL now contributes to the centre; we will continue to give them the needed support to ensure that they sustain this growth trajectory,” the COO said. On his part, the NNPC’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr Umar Ajiya, commended the company’s management on the performance streak, saying, “The only way we can grow is when businesses like this to deliver positive results, to enable us collectively to overcome our financial challenges.” He affirmed that the NNPC management would give all necessary support to all its subsidiaries with capacity and prospect to deliver, including recapitalisation where necessary and help them to secure businesses across the industry value change to ensure growth in their output. The Managing Director of the company, Mr Diepriye Tariah, attributed the performance of the company to the reorientation of the workers whom, he said, had become more commercially focused and efficient. Integrated Data Services Limited is one of the upstream subsidiaries of the NNPC. Established in 1988, the company focuses on seismic data acquisition, processing and reservoir engineering. It also undertakes data storage and management services. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 