Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri Men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Imo State Police Command, have arrested a soldier, Boniface Nwachukwu, for alleged robbery. As a result of his alleged involvement in robbery, our correspondent learnt that Nwachukwu had been dismissed from the Nigerian Army and handed over to the police for prosecution. It was gathered that Nwachukwu, 48, was arrested on Christmas Day in an operation coordinated by the SARS Commander, CSP Victor Godfrey, in Onitsha, the commercial hub of Anambra State. A source stated, “The suspect was arrested for armed robbery and handed over to the army authority and he was immediately dismissed from service. “On December 25, 2019, at Onitsha in Anambra State, SARS operatives arrested one Boniface Njom Nwachukwu, 48. He was arrested in connection with a robbery incident on May 25, 2019, where our operatives arrested four soldiers in connection with armed robbery. “The victims, who are husband and wife, were dispossessed of their Toyota Avalon car and inflicted with serious injuries, while the robbers went away with their valuables. The suspect, Boniface Njom Nwachukwu, bought the stolen car for N200,000 from the robbers. “After collecting N200,000, a dismissed soldier, Usman Abubakar, and others ganged up and arrested Nwachukwu for buying a stolen vehicle and paying released after he paid another N200,000. “The soldier, who was handed over to the military, was court-martialled and dismissed, and what is more, he was found guilty of armed robbery was formally handed over to us on December 25, 2019. “The vehicle used for the robbery, an ash Golf car with two different number plates, RLU 824 SG and WER 824 SG, has been recovered. The dismissed soldier confessed that his gang hit the victims car from the rear and when the victims stopped, they were dispossessed of their vehicle. “The operational car belonged to the dismissed soldier and it has been recovered. Both suspects have confessed to the crime. Investigation is currently ongoing.” The state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, said he was happy with the breakthrough made by the SARS operatives in the state. In a related development, there was jubilation in Imo State on Monday as news filtered in that SARS operatives had arrested the state’s most wanted armed robber, kidnapper and cultist, Charles Ojeoru-Eluke, aka K1. Police sources told our correspondent that the suspect, who had allegedly killed many people, was arrested in an operation led by Godfrey. READ ALSO: Military to resume trial of Badeh’s ADC, others Until his arrest, our correspondent gathered that the suspect operated in Imo, Rivers, Delta and Bayelsa states. Ojeoru-Eluke allegedly murdered a man, who came home to bury his father, at ‘a popular pub in Owerri. The source said, “We have arrested the most wanted notorious murderer, armed robber and kidnapper. “On December 25, 2019, at Umuoluka Awarra in the Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State around 5pm, a SARS operation coordinated and led by CSP Victor Godfrey arrested one of the most notorious criminals of our time, Charles Ojeoru-Eluke, aka K1. “The suspect, who had been on our wanted list, was arrested for heinous crimes committed in the Ohaji/Egbema area of Imo State as well as in Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta states.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com