What is your job description? I research on potential clients for the company. I also ensure that we are on the right track because sometimes, there are so many distractions. Running a business in Nigeria isn’t that easy; it has its road bumps. Can you tell us about your company? It is a marketing communications firm. We call ourselves ‘the fixers’ because we identify brands in the market that need fixing. Some people are not really aware of the need and importance of communication and branding to their businesses. We target both large scale and small businesses that need fixing.  We help to put those brands in the faces of their customers. Where growth is concerned, I am passionate. We started with six brands (as clients), and though there have been challenges, we have continue to move forward, we have had our ups and downs. How did it start for you? Right from my first year at the university, I have always done one job or the other. Immediately after graduation, I was also working and upon completion of the National Youth Service Corps scheme, the company that I interned with offered me a job. After a year, I had to resign because at the end of the day I was losing myself and I had already given the company my all. I then decided to break out. After resigning from the company, I began searching for jobs but I didn’t get offers that were good enough. I wasn’t pleased with all that, so I decided to start my own firm. During my internship while in school, I worked with a content creation company. I garnered a lot of experience because my then boss exposed me to so many things. I didn’t know that I was being prepared for what I am doing today. At a particular time, my boss gave me an assignment and said if I was able to pull it off, my salary would be increased. I was able to deliver on it and that made people to know me on social media as someone who could fix brands. When I started (the business) in 2018, I actually wanted to be a freelancer because everyone had put the fear of starting a company in me. I am young and I also have a small frame, so this makes people not to give me jobs at times. However, some people recognise my value and are ready to pay for it. What are some of the challenges you face on the job? Getting clients can be challenging because one has to (mostly) rely on referrals. It is also discouraging when you do cold marketing and keep getting rejected. Taking on more than I can chew is also another challenge. Sometimes, one gets many clients and when one thinks about the money, it would be really hard to say no, but one cannot take it all. It could get overwhelming and one would start to lose oneself. At the end of the day, you not eventually be able to deliver the value you initially promised. It is important to know when to say no. What aspect of your job thrills you the most? I think it is in the area of social media and content development. However, I won’t say I don’t like the strategy part too. Strategy involving who the target audience is and what the brand is about. Then we talk about how to implement those strategies and come up with different concepts to make it happen. The most amazing and satisfying part for me is when we send it (the result) to the customers and they adopt it. I usually have headaches whenever I’m trying to do a sponsored advert and no one is engaging with it. But when it is engaging, I know I am getting it right. What gives your company the edge over others? It is the fact that we are passionate about growth. Fulfilment comes from putting in a lot of work to grow a brand. We call ourselves the fixers because we correct mistakes made by brands. What is your educational background? I attended FUNNAB International School, Abeokuta, for my secondary education. I have a degree in Mass Communication from Babcock University, Ogun State. I also have some professional certifications which are– diploma in Public Relations from the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, Certificate in Professional Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. Certificate of Integrated Communications, Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK; certificate of Digital Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, also in the UK. What are your other interests? I love listening to music and dancing. I am also passionate about children and spotting talents. What does success mean to you? Success is contextual; it is different for people. For some people, it is about having money in their bank accounts; while for some, it is about having a family. As for me, success is the fulfillment and being able to achieve everything I dream of. How do you like to relax? When I’m not working, you would most likely find me watching movies or going from one restaurant to another. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    