John Ameh and Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday named a tax consultant, Mr Muhammad Nami, as the new chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service. The appointment came as the tenure of Mr Babatunde Fowler expired. Buhari, who approved the composition of a new board for the tax agency, asked Fowler to hand over the FIRS’s affairs to the most senior director, pending the confirmation of the new board by the Senate. “Mr Muhammad, a well-trained tax, accounting and management professional with highly-rated qualifications and professional practice and licences from relevant professional bodies, has almost three decades of practical work experience in auditing, tax management and advisory and management services to clients in the banking, manufacturing, services and public sectors as well as non-profit organisations,” a statement by Buhari’s media aide, Mr Garba Shehu, said on Monday. The statement added, “He is an expert in rendering advisory support services to investors in respect of new business start-ups and management of existing business. “He has also continuously rendered outsourced services to clients in trading, service and manufacturing sectors of the nation’s economy.” The Presidency said Nami graduated from Bayero University, Kano, in 1991 and obtained a Master’s in Business in 2004 from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Buhari had on August 20, 2015, nominated Fowler to chair the FIRS for four-year tenure. The Senate confirmed his appointment December 9, 2015, a term that ran out officially on December 8. Fowler on Monday handed over to the Coordinating Director, Domestic Taxes Group at the FIRS, Abiodun Aina, a few hours after his replacement was announced. A statement issued by the Head, Communications and Servicom Department at the FIRS, Wahab Gbadamosi, said Fowler handed over at 6.39pm inside the boardroom of the agency. He thanked President Buhari for the privilege given him to serve the nation. According to him, there is nothing automatic as a second term, noting that change is the only thing that is constant in life. READ ALSO: Lagos arresting northern youths, alleges Arewa youth forum “There is nothing automatic about having a second term.  Some of you might say it’s a big surprise. It is a privileged to serve one’s country. And if you have the privilege of serving your country for one term and you believe you have done your best, you have to thank God for that,” Fowler said. He also said, “I hope in leaving the FIRS, I’ve left behind something positive that each and every one of you can build on.” Aina promised to manage the service in an effective manner during the period he would be acting as the FIRS chairman. He told Fowler, “You have done a lot within the space of four years. You have transformed the FIRS. You have modernised it. There have been a lot of innovations. And under you we have achieved great heights.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 