Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt A 500-level student of Law identified as Matilda Mark at the Rivers State University on Monday night was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant in her private apartment outside the university campus. The 24-year-old student was found dead in a pool of her own blood after she was allegedly stabbed to death by her assailant. According to a source, who spoke to PUNCH on condition of anonymity, the victim was also a ballet dancer, who performed at the Salvation Ministry’s headquarters in Port Harcourt during the 57th birthday celebration of the church’s founder. The source explained that the victim’s apartment was forced open in the night by her killers, who raped her before stabbing her to death, a development that forced most of her course mates to shun their classes on Tuesday. It was learnt that the victim lived in the apartment with other female students but on the night of the incident, she was alone. “Her killers broke into the victim’s room near the Rivers State University campus main gate. The compound is close to other houses; we only know her as Matilda and she is 24 years old. She danced ballet at Salvation Ministries during our Papa’s 57th birthday celebration. “When the news broke on Tuesday, her friends and other final year law students could not attend classes because of the shock. I heard that Matilda used to live with two other female roommates, who were not at home that night when the incident happened.” When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, told one of our correspondents that the body of the deceased had been recovered by the police and deposited in a mortuary. Omoni also stated that while an investigation was still ongoing to fish out those behind the killing of Matilda, it had not been confirmed whether the victim was raped before she was stabbed to death. “That she was raped is not the true reflection of what happened yesterday. But I can confirm that a young girl of about 24 years old, who was staying off-campus was killed yesterday (Tuesday) by an unknown assailant. “The assailant stabbed her to death. We have recovered the corpse and it is in the mortuary. We have spoken with the family and investigation is on as the matter has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department. No arrest has been made so far,” he added.  