Thirteen years after its last population census, Nigeria has yet to have another one despite the 10-year interval recommended by the United Nations. In this piece, TUNDE AJAJA examines the reasons why the government seems not eager for this all-important exercise in spite of its many benefits “Population is basic to the production and distribution of material wealth. In order to plan for, and implement economic and social development, administrative activity or scientific research, it is necessary to have reliable and detailed data on the size, distribution and composition of population. The population census is a primary source of these basic benchmark statistics, covering not only the settled population but also homeless persons and nomadic groups,” says the United Nations in its ‘Principles and Recommendations for population and housing censuses: the 2020 round’ paper. Just in line with the position of the UN, census, across the world, is generally accepted as a cardinal exercise that countries (should) embark upon at reasonable intervals. Beyond helping to know the number of citizens in a country, including their age, gender and spatial distribution, census also helps to generate a reliable data for national planning, policy formulation, good governance, development planning, risk reduction, crisis response, social welfare programmes and business analysis. This, perhaps, underscores the establishment of the National Population Commission in 1988, which was to collect, analyse and disseminate demographic data in the country as well as monitor the country’s population policy. Across the world, the UN, through the United Nations Population Fund, popularly known as UNFPA, recommends that census should be conducted every 10 years, and this is applicable to Nigeria, being a member nation of the UN. But, in Nigeria, the 10-year margin has for a long time been a mirage; successive governments hardly honour that recommendation despite the compelling need for the exercise. According to some analysts, the absence of up-to-date data for planning is part of the reasons why the country has remained in its current state. A renowned professor of International Law and Jurisprudence, Akin Oyebode, had in a previous interview with our correspondent, said Nigeria’s “journey to modernity” would begin when it had conducted an accurate census “because with that, you would know who is who and you can do proper planning and management of the economy.” He added, “In this country, we don’t even know how many we are; we only live by guessed estimates. If I were the President of Nigeria, one of the first things I would have to do is a proper and accurate census. And it is an accurate census that would be the beginning of our journey to modernity.” Is it noteworthy that the last census held in Nigeria was the 2006 exercise, which produced a population of 140,431,790. Thus, the next one should have been held in 2016. But till date, it has yet to hold. Prior to the 2006 exercise, the last census conducted in Nigeria was in 1991, which was 15 years interval. And before the 1991 exercise, the census held before it was in 1973, which was 18 years interval. The latter was so enmeshed in controversies that the regime of Gen Murtala Mohammed eventually cancelled it. Notably, for the 15 years that the controversies lasted up till 1991 and for the overall time lag between successive exercises, Nigeria relied on assumption and foreign sources to know its population. This, no doubt, explains why many local and foreign institutions have their respective population figures for Nigeria, making the country’s population subjective. For example, as of December 4, 2019, Worldometers gave the population of Nigeria as 203,147,870; Wikipedia gave the figure as 200,000,000; the World Population Review gave it as 203,151,237; Trading Economics gave it as 195.9 million as of 2018, while the Director-General of the NPC, Dr Ghaji Ismail, on July 9, 2019 gave the figure as 190 million. In fact, Ismail, while alluding to the variants, said at a press conference to mark the 2019 World Population Day in Abuja, “The United Nations estimates that our population is 201 million people, while based on the last census conducted and the estimation of the commission, Nigeria has a population of 190 million people. It is important that Nigeria undertakes a population census to ascertain its actual population as we are now working based on estimations.” To further stress the urgent need for another census, the acting chairman of the commission, Bimbola Hundeyin, said in October while defending the commission’s 2020 proposal before the Senate, that since 2006 when the last census was held, the commission had based its estimates on an annual population growth of 3.2 per cent. “We will like to do another census like yesterday; we are willing to conduct the exercise but the only thing is that we are waiting for Mr President’s proclamation which comes with a timeline,” she added. Interestingly, in the ‘Census in the coming years’ section on its website, the UNFPA scheduled Nigeria as part of the 20 countries that should have conducted its census in 2018. And beyond highlighting the gains of the exercise, UNFPA provides technical and financial support to countries that conduct their census. Meanwhile, the refusal of successive governments in the past is not hidden to Nigerians themselves. Findings have shown that apart from the huge capital involvement, one other main reason is the mutual distrust among the different ethnic groups and geopolitical zones. Thus, I almost all the exercises, there were the usual accusations and counter-accusations of falsification and manipulation of results among the ethnic groups and geopolitical zones. In fact, till date, some people believe that the 2006 census that was officially accepted and has been the basis for subsequent estimates was a ruse. But, it is worthy of note that the pronounced distrust is not just for nothing; till date, population plays a role in how the nation’s resources is shared among states of the federation and it is sometimes a basis for citing developmental projects. “There are forces raged against an accurate census because it would expose the lie,” Oyebode said, while alluding to the distrust. A study, titled, ‘Contemporary issues of population census in Nigeria, conducted by Joshua Gwanshak and Amos Hyeladi of the Department of Geography, Plateau State University, pointed out that the 1952 census of Nigeria indicated that the Hausa Fulani had the largest share of the population, and so  they dominated the first post-colonial government set up after independence in 1960. Quoting the Library of Congress in the United States, however, they added, “The newly independent nation ordered a census to be taken in 1962 but the results showed that northerners accounted for only 30 per cent of the population. A recount in 1963 led somewhat suspiciously to the north accounting for 67 per cent of the population.” According to the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the percentage accruable to each tier of government, especially the 36 states and the 774 local government areas is shared among the constituents of each tier by applying factors such as equality, population, land mass and social development as yardstick. Perhaps, the sensitivity and suspicion that surround census in Nigeria seems to be so rife that when the then Chairman of the National Population Commission, Festus Odimegwu, questioned the credibility of previous census, his statement was greeted by severe criticisms that led to the subtle end of the exercise and his (Odumegwu’s) exit from office as he was asked to resign by the then President Goodluck Jonathan. Odimegwu had reportedly said no census had been credible in Nigeria since 1816, including the one conducted in 2006. “I have the records and evidence produced by scholars and professors of repute. If the current laws are not amended, the planned 2016 census will not succeed,” he was quoted as saying. This did not go down well with some persons and groups, especially northerners, as the Arewa Consultative Forum and the then Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, called for Odimegwu’s sacking. And at a later date, President Jonathan confirmed that Odimegwu was asked to go due to the comments he made on previous exercises. Speaking on the suspicion that often surround the exercise, a former commissioner with the NPC, Dr Lere Oyewumi, explained that it was a reflection of how Nigerians suspect people from other regions and ethnic groups, in addition to how complex and costly the exercise is. He said, “In this part of the world, the suspicion is always there and it is often a basis for future manipulation. I don’t think there is anything we can do to remove it, but with more education and enlightenment, I think we well get it right.” Apart from the suspicion, Oyewumi said the main reason why the nation does not hold the exercise could be funding, being an exercise that involves a lot of preparation. He said, “The exercise should have held in 2016 but the greatest challenge at the time was that it was about the same time with the general elections. General elections held in 2015, but if you want to do census, you need at least two years of field preparation, especially the demarcation, and census is very expensive. “Agencies like the UNFPA do help with logistics, like vehicles and other materials, but the cash involvement is usually large. However, I think in the last two years, they have started the preparation, and as we speak, they are on the field doing local government demarcation in each of the states. “Demarcating the country into enumeration areas takes about a year, and it’s the most technical aspect of census. If it is not done properly, you cannot get a good result. But, mainly, I think it’s finance. There are other factors, but not as prominent as that.” While the cost and other challenges could sound as sufficient justification, it is interesting to note that despite the huge cost of elections and the challenges that mar the exercise every time it’s held, the country goes ahead with it, given that it is an exercise backed by law. Thus, this raises the question of whether census should also be backed by law, so that it could hold as and when due. In his view, Oyewumi said, “I think it would be a good step. Without necessary planning, there can’t be meaningful development. Planning is as important as development itself, talk of education, health and other sectors. If you don’t know the number of people in Nigeria, how do you plan for them? “In this part of the world we don’t value statistics and that is why when it comes to certain issues, the figure we quote are from foreign bodies, and what they give us are estimates; not definite figures. So, I agree that it needs a legal backing like elections, so it would not be optional.” Meanwhile, an economist, Mr Johnson Chukwu, who spoke on the many benefits of conducting the exercise, said a country needs reliable data to plan for economic and social development, adding that population is an absolute necessity to plan. He said, “All aspects of planning would require you to know the size of your population, their income distribution, gender distribution and other details so you would know how to plan. For instance, you need to know the number of your young people to determine the number of schools you need. “You need to know your population to determine the number of health facilities that would serve them, the quantity of power they need, the volume of water they need, the number of security agents needed, etc. So, you basically need your population in all aspects of planning. In the absence of a reliable population data, you really can’t plan, and the state of our system could be because we are planning based on faulty information.” Looking at the tension and suspicion that usually surround the exercise, Chukwu was asked if population should continually be a yardstick for sharing resources. He said it’s a misnomer to have a federal system of government where resources are shared from the centre. “Therefore, my approach is that we should restructure our political system and allow the federating units to be semi-autonomous,” he said. “It’s called a federation. The other federating units are not supposed to be going cap-in-hand to the Federal Government to collect money. Once you have a federation the way it should be, the issue of using population as the basis of sharing revenue would not even arise.” And in his view, a lawyer and former vice-president of the Nigerian Bar Association, Mr Monday Ubani, while juxtaposing the absence of a verified population figures with the plan by the Federal Government to allow visa on arrival to Africans from January 2020, in a tweet on December 14, said, “A country that neither has accurate data of its citizens and foreigners in her country, nor the plan to have any is throwing open the country from January, must be an unserious nation in all ramifications.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   