’Femi Asu Presidential candidate of the Alliance for New Nigeria in the February 2019 general elections, Fela Durotoye, has described the rearrest of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, as another tragic day for rule of law in Nigeria. He added that Nigeria did not need rulers. Durotoye spoke in reaction to the rearrest of Sowore by operatives of the Department of State Service on Friday. Sowore had been detained illegally by the DSS since August when he was arrested on allegation of planning a forceful takeover of government through his scheduled nationwide protests, #RevolutionNow. On the 125th day of his detention, Sowore, who ran as president on the platform of African Action Congress in the February 2019 general elections, was released. Barely 24 hours after, however, he was rearrested in court on Friday. Durotoye, a motivational speaker, aired his view via his Twitter handle @feladurotoye. “Today, Friday, December 6, 2019, is indeed another tragic day for the rule of law in our nation,” he said, noting that DSS operatives disrupted court proceedings as they sought to forcibly rearrest Sowore and his co-defendant, Olawale Bakare, in the courtroom. Durotoye noted that it had been reported that the DSS operatives also chased away Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu from the courtroom while also brutalising a journalist. Continuing, the tweet thread states, “This savage act by the DSS operatives just proved to the whole world that the executive arm of the Federal Government has no respect for the judiciary and no regard for the rule of law and separation of powers. “This is not just an attack on Omoyele Sowore. It is a blatant attack on justice, law and order, and in fact an attack on every Nigerian’s right to justice.” According to him, this is what happens when the rule of law becomes rule over law. Durotoye said, “Nigeria does not need rulers; Nigeria needs leaders. And now the leaders must arise and speak up with one voice against this rulership system that uses the ‘security’ forces to oppress us and suppress our rights and the power of the judiciary in securing those rights. “I still believe that one day…when we are truly ready, a new dawn would arise over our nation and this season of darkness will pass, and everything that is going on now will only become lessons in our history books.”