Matthew Ochei, Asaba The popular Timber Market in the Bonasac area, behind the Chiedu Okoh Plaza on the Onitsha/Asaba Expressway, Delta State, was razed on Saturday and goods worth several millions of naira were destroyed. Our correspondent gathered during a visit to the site of the incident on Sunday the inferno that started around 8pm. It was learnt that besides the loss of goods, there was no loss of lives and nobody was injured. It was gathered that the timely intervention of a team of firefighters and other sympathisers helped in extinguishing the fire. Eyewitnesses said when the fire started, workers and residents of the sprawling timber market frantically. According to an eyewitness, Mr Chukwuma Opiah, the fire started from a cold room behind the market. He said, “I was coming back home around 8pm when I saw the fire; so, everyone started running; some persons at the gas plant opposite the timber market used their fire extinguishers but could not quench the fire; so the Delta State Fire Service was contacted and its personnel came and extinguish the inferno. “If not for their timely intervention, the fire would have gutted the gas plant, a hospital and all the houses around that area. In fact, it is God, who brought them on time; it would have been an unsavoury story.” He noted that an electric spark from the cold room was responsible for the inferno, adding that goods worth millions of naira were destroyed. One of the shop owners in the market, Mr Oliseh Steve, blamed the leadership of the market for allowing the cold room in the place. “We have had issues with the cold room several times; it has destroyed the transformer on several occasions,” he stated. Another trader, whose shop was burnt to ashes, Mr Victor Okeke, said he came back from the village on Sunday after hearing about the incident. He stated that most shop owners were not yet aware of the situation as many of them had travelled for the Christmas. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 