Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja A combination of stagnating real incomes and high inflation rate has curtailed private consumption and private investment in Nigeria. The latest Nigeria Economic Update, released by the World Bank had noted that “Nigeria’s recent economic performance reflects a combination of slow growth in private consumption and private investment combined with contracting net exports.” “Though positive, the growth of private consumption (accounting for about 60 per cent of Gross Domestic Product) remains constrained by high inflation and stagnating real incomes,” the World Bank said. The Consumer Price Index released by the National Bureau of Statistics on December 13 also reported that the inflation rate rose to a 19-month high at 11.85 per cent. The index rose by 0.24 percentage points year-on-year from 11.61 per cent in October to 11.85 per cent in November. The development was partly blamed on the closure of the country’s borders, which has made it difficult for goods to be exported and imported into the country through the land borders. The World Bank, in the NEU, observed that while a rise in public capital spending in early 2019 had helped to boost investment, the contribution of investment to growth remained limited due its small share of the economy. Net exports of goods and services contracted, as import growth (especially capital goods and services) outpaced oil dominated exports. The World Bank’s analysis reflects the economic condition faced by most Nigerians, who could not realise budgeted personal aspirations due to paucity of funds. A businessman,Mr Charles Enwereh,  told our correspondent that lack of funds had stalled work on the construction of a house he was building at Ushafa, a satellite town in the Federal Capital Territory. “The building got to the roofing stage since the middle of 2018, but things have been difficult and I have not been able to make enough money to invest in the project,” Enwereh said. A banker, Franklin James, had a similar experience. The plan to change his car was aborted by a sharp spike in the cost of used, imported vehicles, a development which pushed his preferred brand of car beyond his reach. For Chidi Okereafor, a technician who installs and fixes DSTV and CCTV sets, the tight economic situation was illustrated by his inability to get a new phone, and new set of wears, for Christmas, as he had planned since January. “I could not save enough money,” he explained. A bleak, ‘dry’ Christmas and New Year celebrations is imminent, as far as Mrs Agatha Ativie, a housewife, is concerned. Although her husband, a civil servant, had opened a grocery store for her to boost the family’s income, there is not enough funds to procure foodstuffs and other items needed to celebrate the Yuletide. “We are not really celebrating Christmas this year,” she said, adding that she had planned an elaborate, fun-filled festive period. “A lot of money is needed for that but unfortunately, it is not available at the moment,” Ativie explained. The story is similar for majority of Nigerians, as only a few individuals, mostly the Politically-Exposed-Persons, are not feeling the constraints imposed by the prevailing economic situation. Most individuals are complaining of cash crunch, but the available funds are not able to keep up with soaring prices of goods and services due to the galloping inflation rate. A developmental economist, Odilim Enwegbara, noted that it was not unusual for private investment levels to drop when income stagnates. “When purchasing power stagnates, it is expected that citizens have to reduce their spending,” he said. He was quick to add that the Federal Government should address the situation. Enwegbara said, “Governments all over the world quickly stimulate their economies by injecting more liquidity in order to increase the purchasing power of their citizens. “It is by doing that the economy will begin to grow through demand push. “This government should know that more money in circulation will mean increased demand for goods and services leading to growth in business activities and growth of the economy. “Whenever there is sluggish demand, the problem of inflation becomes less important. In other words, whenever there is liquidity crunch, government should stimulate the economy by stimulating purchasing power and increasing consumption.” He added that the government could stimulate the economy by paying workers, and releasing funds to contractors without any delays. The World Bank, in the Nigeria Economic Update, pointed out that although the country had achieved considerable progress in boosting income levels and living standards, it had not yet managed to reach a convergence path with advanced economies. Nigeria’s economic performance, when compared to China, illustrates what the bank described as the missed opportunities of the past five decades. In 1970, Nigeria’s per capita GDP was roughly double that of China in purchasing power-parity terms. By 1998, China had caught up with Nigeria, and both countries had per capita income levels equal to about seven per cent of that of the United States at the time. However, the Chinese economy continued to accelerate, and by 2018 China’s GDP per capita was almost five times that of Nigeria. The World Bank further observed that high levels of income inequality had weakened the impact of growth on poverty reduction. Nigeria’s Gini coefficient, which represents the income or wealth distribution of a nation’s residents, and is the most commonly used measurement of inequality, was 43 in 2009, the latest year for which data are available. Nigeria’s income and wealth distribution inequality was not exceptionally high by the standards of sub-Saharan Africa, according to the World Bank. But the bank noted that there are profound regional and rural/urban disparities in wealth and income distribution. “Central and southern Nigeria are wealthier than the northern regions, and urban areas dramatically out-perform rural areas on indicators of both monetary poverty and non-monetary well-being,” the bank said. Highlighting economic growth in Nigeria, the bank observed that the slow pace of recovery had limited progress in improving living standards. Nigeria’s economy continues to recover from the 2016 recession, with GDP growth remaining broadly stable at two per cent in the first half of 2019. The real GDP growth rate accelerated from 1.7 per cent in the first half of 2018 to 2.1 per cent in the second half of 2018, then eased slightly to two per cent in the first half of 2019. However, the World Bank noted that Nigeria’s recovery following the 2014-15 oil shock had been slower than those of most comparator economies such as India, South Africa, Brazil and Indonesia. Until 2015, Nigeria’s real GDP growth compared favourably with that of peer countries, including structural peers (commodity exporters with large populations) and aspirational peers (upper-middle-income countries with growth rates that Nigeria could match). Between 2000 and 2014, Nigeria’s GDP growth rate averaged 7.2 per cent, but the oil shock caused it to plunge to 2.7 per cent in 2015 and -1.6 per cent in 2016. Despite its modest recovery since 2017, Nigeria’s growth rate remains below those of peer countries, the World Bank observed in the Nigeria Economic Update. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 