Okechukwu Nnodim The Natural Oil and Gas Suppliers Association of Nigeria is to partner both the federal and state governments in the fight against petroleum product adulteration across the country. It also pledged to support the government and its agencies in tackling the incessant cases of pipeline vandalism. The National President, NOGASA, Benneth Korie, disclosed this during the inauguration of the association’s executive council members for Kaduna, Anambra and Abia states. He was quoted in a statement issued by the National Public Relations Officer of NOGASA, Chinedu Ukadike, as saying, “Our objective is to ensure that the supply of petroleum products is carried out under ethical standards nationwide and for suppliers to operate in a peaceful environment while doing their businesses. “We are opposed to the adulteration of petroleum products, pipeline vandalism and other illicit vices in the oil petroleum industry. We are here to promote uprightness, nobility and integrity in the activities of petroleum product supplies.” Korie added, “We therefore reach out to all stakeholders, especially governments at all levels and security agencies, to join hands with us to collectively sanitise the industry and make the environment conducive for Nigerians.” The NOGASA president said the association was inaugurated in the three states to promote the ease of oil and gas business in the areas. Korie said, “We are replicating our state council office in Akwa, Anambra State and NOGASA is planting its name and administrative pillars in every Nigerians state capital. “This is in preparation for better ways of doing oil and gas supply business in Nigeria, usually with regards to the distribution of petroleum products. As an association, it is our desire to ensure that our members engage in this global business through the best means.” He stated that NOGASA’s entry into the supply of petroleum products would bring meaningful innovation and development to the business. “We also want to stop quack suppliers, who are economic saboteurs and have done damage and degraded the integrity of businessmen and women in the petroleum industry,” Korie stated. He said the association was determined to end petroleum product adulteration and had set out policies that would help it achieve this. The Kaduna State Zonal Chairman, NOGASA, Tony Lar, commended the association for the establishment of a council in the state and pledged to uphold the policies of the organisation with respect to the supply of unadulterated petroleum products. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 