The year 2019 has been an interesting one for technology in Nigeria. According to figures released recently by the National Bureau of Statistics, the Information and Communications Technology’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product has increased to 13.8 per cent. As long as we do the right things such as investing in the sector and supporting the development of homegrown solutions, then the percentage is likely to go up. I am a bit worried each time I hear of how much we spend as a country on foreign solutions that can be developed and maintained locally. While it is okay to allow innovation from all parts of the world into our country, we should develop a national strategy otherwise, billions of dollars will continually leave the shores of our land annually to support the growth of other economies and ecosystems. Africans are designed, to be creative, as their acquisition of diverse skills has led to the proliferation of traditional industries at the same time when the industrial revolution was taking place, in mainstream Europe and America. For Africa to be among the league of continents pushing for technological innovations that can cut across the globe, it needs to encourage its already existing local innovative solutions and develop new ones that can compete on a global stage. The role of institutions and individuals in the tech ecosystem is to stimulate this and back it up with concrete actions that cannot be downplayed. The role of African governments too cannot be overemphasised. In Africa, there is the need to push concrete policies that will bring about effective progress. These policies should encourage the sustainability of indigenous tech innovative solutions that can propel Africans to live better and fulfilled lives. This way, dependence on imports of solutions from foreign lands to our common and daily challenges will reduce and such saved funds can be utilised in other areas for the benefit of the African people. We can even make a case for the exportation of our local software, first among the countries within Africa and then beyond the shores of Africa. This is one path that tech advocates on the continent cannot ignore. Taking steps towards global recognition of African indigenous solutions requires the strong backing and input of the government. One of the ways this can happen is to further encourage the local content policy to take a firmer root in the country. Indigenous technology products answer the needs of the general population thus, reducing the regular flooding of the market with unnecessary foreign products. For instance, in this digital age, technology has immensely changed the way financial transactions and general payment is carried out in all parts of the world. One of the key steps, to successfully, launch an indigenous technology solution for global software recognition is, through “disruption”. This is, the term that, describes big changes, in sectors, brought about, by technology. One thing that should be noted, however, is that, for Africans to be able to export their innovations, to other sister countries in Africa and beyond the shores of Africa, there is the need for them to think global, when designing their innovative solutions. They should always think of disruptions to the status quo that simplifies the challenges, result oriented and also minimises costs. These are some of the attributes that, make for global software solutions that will be attractive outside the shores of each African country. For instance, disruptions in the financial services industry across the world, was inevitable, in the late 1990s, thus, the founding of PayPal, a good example of a global technology solution, from the United States, changed the way banking, revenues and payments, as well as, investments are done. PayPal, however, quickly extended its services, to other countries of the world, including many countries in Africa. Nigeria was not left out until some unscrupulous Nigerians started the perpetrate fraud with PayPal, which caused the management of PayPal to stop full services of its payment solutions, to Nigeria. An example of an indigenous technology organisation, in Nigeria, SystemSpecs, also, took steps in this regards, to change the narrative of the local technology solution, into a global software platform in offering diverse solutions, with the aim of developing human capital management and providing financial software solutions to corporate and government entities in Nigeria and the African continent. In Nigeria, it developed a solution that enables the Nigerian government to collect its revenues in ‘one basket’, through the Treasury Single Account powered by the Remita platform. It should be noted that, this solution has caught the attention of South Sudan, another African country, hence, there has been an inroad by that tech solution. For the tech ecosystem in Africa, to have more of global software solutions, there is, also, the need to have enabling environment, in terms of infrastructure. In view of the magnitude of infrastructure required, it is imperative that African governments play major roles in providing adequate and cheap power supply, (i.e., electricity), fast and cheap broadband and collaboration with hubs tech hubs, in various forms that they may need the assistance of government. This is to enable them to effectively mentor, guide and incubate the members of the ecosystem, who have ideas thatare capable of being developed into fantastic solutions that can be effectively used not only for Nigeria but for Africa and the world at large. It should be noted that, software developers in Europe and America, developing software that are effectively used on global levels have access to the infrastructures and collaboration stated above. African governments should take a cue from this and do likewise to get its indigenous software developers upgrade to a global pedestal. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    