Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt THE crisis between the Academic Staff Union of Universities and the management of the University of Port Harcourt took a fresh dimension on Thursday when the union announced that it would withhold the second semester results of students in the tertiary institution. The development, our correspondent gathered, could delay students waiting to be cleared for the National Youth Service Corps. ASUU Chairman, UNIPORT branch, Dr Austen Sado, explained that the decision not to release the students’ results was taken after the university management refused to rescind its decision to sack a lecturer, Prof. Frank Ugiomoh. Speaking in a telephone interview with The PUNCH on Thursday, Sado said,  “Yes, I said so (that the second semester results would be withheld). It was part of the resolution we passed. We gave them seven days to recall him (sacked lecturer) or we do a press conference to tell Nigerians what was happening; and that seven days after that, we will not submit our results. “It is part of the resolution we have taken before now. Is it proper that this man that has been under immense punishment for two years remains like that? “To rescind our decision to withhold the students’ second semester result, they (university authorities) should reverse their illegal verdict, they should reverse their unjust verdict; that verdict of termination of appointment is repugnant to natural justice and equity. They should reverse it; that is all we are asking. “The trial of the lecturer should follow due process. If he is found culpable, there is no problem with that. But we cannot have the same people writing petition and prosecuting the same matter and becoming judges in the same matter,” the chairman of the university’s branch of ASUU said. READ ALSO: Police, land-grabbers clash in Ogun, 10 nabbed Reacting, the spokesman for the university, Dr William Wodi, told our correspondent that the vice-chancellor of the university had nothing to gain in the matter, adding that it was wrong for Sado to seek for the reinstatement of a lecturer that had dragged the governing council of the institution to court. He said, “How can a governing council reinstate a lecturer when he is in court with the same governing council? Why did he (Prof. Ugiomoh) not take his matter to ASUU when he knows that the union will eventually support him,” Wodi said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 