Femi Makinde Edo State Government has signed an agreement with Ossiomo Power & Infrastructure Limited and CCETC Clean Energy to supply electricity to government-owned hospitals, streetlights and other government establishments in the state. Governor Godwin Obaseki said his administration had to enter into an agreement with the company in to enable hospitals and other establishments to render quality services to the people without any snag. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Crusoe Osagie, the governor said the power firm would also supply electricity to the industrial parks and other important places to make artisans more productive despite the electricity situation in the country. He said, “The 55MW Ossiomo Power Plant is being developed by Ossiomo Power & Infrastructure Limited and CCETC Clean Energy in Ologbo, near Benin City. The company will generate 55 megawatts gas-powered electricity and will also engage in electricity distribution to key places in the state. “The state government has signed a power purchase agreement with the company for the supply of power to public offices and utilities in the state, including the Government House, hospitals and street lights. “This will free up power for other uses in the Sapele Road axis, where the distribution infrastructure of the company passes through. Obaseki said the arrangement would also break the monopoly of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company, paving the way for a fair electricity market in the state. He said, “The plant is also expected to power the Benin Industrial and Enterprise Park, a N200bn industrial park being pioneered by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration in Iyanomo axis of Benin. “The plant will also provide power for the Edo Production Centre, a facility along the Sapele Road corridor that provides a working space for medium scale industrial enterprises, to boost productivity in the state.” He explained that work had reached an advance stage at the site of the power plant while the first phase of 10MW would be ready very soon. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  