Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission on Sunday declared the All Progressives Congress’ candidates in the 16 local government areas of the state winners of the council elections held on Saturday. SIEC Chairman, Justice Jide Aladejana, returned the APC candidates elected having scored the highest number of votes and meeting the stipulated requirements based on the results announced by the returning officers for the councils. The APC candidates are Mrs Motunde Fajuyi, Ado Council, who polled a total of  27,578 votes; Mr Adeola Lawrence, Ido Osi, (15,879 votes); Ogunjobi Esan, Ekiti East (11,946 votes); Mr Adetunji Stephen, Efon Council (9,356 votes); Amire Kolade, Ekiti South West (13,975); Akinola Oladunjoye, Ilejemeje (5,477 votes) and Mr Aborisade Michael, Moba (13,028 votes). Others are Ropo Ige, Ijero (16,744); Mr Oluwafemi Ayodele, Ikere (13,244); Ayodele Fadumiye, Gbonyin, (13,320); Paul Awopetu, Emure (11,392);  Mr Alabi Olanrewaju, Ise/Orun (12,400 ); Kareem Agunbiade, Ekiti West (21,874); Mr Sola Olominu, Ikole (21,228); Mr Foluso James Ojo, Oye (20,352) and Mr Shina Ogunleye, Irepodun/Ifelodun (22,896). Four parties, including the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party, fielded candidates for the local government elections. Meanwhile, the PDP State Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, on Sunday rejected the results of the election and called for outright cancellation, saying, “The polls failed to meet the minimum standard. They were the worst ever in the political history of the state.” Oguntuwase also declared seven-day mourning period effective from Monday for the killing during the election of Kosedake and four others casualties currently receiving treatment at the intensive care unit of Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital. READ ALSO: APC rejects Adamawa LG polls He said, “The Ekiti PDP rejects the results of the Saturday’s council in totality. What we had was a mere tragedy and comedy. It was comedy in the sense that it was a drama of people who wanted to imitate or let the activities have semblance of democracy while truly the essence of democracy was bastardised. “In all the 16 local government and 177 wards, there was truly no election. For proper election to hold, there are certain materials that are important. But I want to tell you categorically that in Ilejemeje, Ido-Osi, Ise/Orun, Ikere, Ikole and other councils, ballot papers and boxes were not supplied. “We were surprised that in areas where there was no election, results were announced. What happened in Kogi State was exactly what Governor Kayode Fayemi and his men did in Ekiti.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 