Afeez Hanafi Thugs who killed an official of the Lagos State Transport Management Authority, Mr Ola Oyeshina, at Iganmu-Sifax area of Apapa unleashed the terror to prevent the man and his colleagues from towing stationery trucks causing nuisance on the road, Sunday PUNCH has learnt. It was gathered that the LASTMA team had around 5pm on Friday gone to clear the trucks obstructing the flow of traffic on the highway which is notorious for gridlock. Our correspondent gathered that as the team wanted to tow the trucks causing the blockade, some drivers and hoodlums pounced on them. In the process, they reportedly hauled stones at the officials which hit Oyeshina and made him unconscious. “They were on normal enforcement in the area when they were attacked. Trucks are parked indiscriminately, causing serious traffic in that area. They had gone there to enforce the traffic law. They wanted to tow one of those trucks when the drivers and some hoodlums attacked them,” a senior official of the agency, told our correspondent on the telephone. The General Manager of the agency, Mr Olajide Oduyoye, in a statement on Saturday said the victim was rushed to the Randle Hospital and was referred to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, where he died. Oduyoye, who condemned the continued attack on the agency’s officials while on duty, stated that two suspects had been arrested and detained at the Area B Command, Surulere. He said, “Owing to the trauma experienced, he (Oyeshina) was immediately referred to LUTH from Randle Hospital, Surulere. It is unfortunate that the agency lost the young promising officer in the early hours of Saturday, November 30, 2019. The perpetrators of the dastardly act that were caught will be prosecuted to serve as a deterrent to other members of the public who may harbour committing such crime in future.” The incident is a sad reminder of a gruesome attack on a LASTMA Commander, Mr Bakare Olatunji, in December 2016 – also in Apapa by a mob. The mob beat Olatunji, who had led a team to Liverpool in Apapa on traffic rule enforcement, to death after a LASTMA van allegedly killed an assistant driver popularly known as motor boy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 