Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Auditor-General for the Federation, Mr Anthony Ayine, has accused the Senate of denying auditors from his office access to conduct audit on capital items supplied or executed for the National Assembly. Ayine said this in the 2017 audit report of the Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation, which was obtained by our correspondent. He said all efforts made by the auditors to verify about N1.36bn worth of supplied items were not successful as they were denied access to the store and its records. The National Assembly had in recent times come under criticism for not being transparent in matters relating to its finances. Unlike the details of the executive budget usually made available in the Budget Office of the Federation, the parliament’s budget is not available. Ayine said the implication of the unverified N1.36bn expenditure was that public funds might be diverted to unapproved areas while value for money might not be ascertained from such expenditure. He said the response from the management of the National Assembly to him that the stores were undergoing renovation at the time of audit was not acceptable. While stating that his office would not accept this expenditure as a valid charge against public funds, the auditor-general directed the Clerk of the National Assembly to account for the entire sum of N1.36bn. Ayine directed the clerk to ensure that details of the compliance should be forwarded to his office for confirmation. The report read in part, “During the audit of the accounts and other related records maintained by the Senate, it was observed that verification of capital items supplied and executed for the National Assembly totalling N1,364,816,397.95 proved unsuccessful as auditors were denied access to the store and its records. “The implication of this charge is that public funds may be diverted and value for money not ascertained from the expenditure.” For the House of Representatives, he said the audit of the accounts and other related records maintained by the lower chamber revealed unapproved overdraft totalling N95.21m was incurred without due process as required by extant rules. Ayine added that expenditure documents relating to the use of the funds were not provided. He said such unauthorised overdraft might lead to misappropriation of government funds. He also noted that payment vouchers amounting to N235.74m between April and June 2017 and N437.33m between July and October 2017 were not produced for audit. The auditor-general recommended that the clerk of the National Assembly should recover the sum of N673.08m and return it to the treasury. For the education sector, the report stated that the Federal University of Petroleum Resources awarded a contract of N990.63m for the construction and furnishing of a three-storey, four-floor structure student residential building complex without due process. However, Ayine said based on the audit conducted on the institution, it was discovered that the contract was awarded without ministerial tender’s board approval. This, it stated, was a violation of government’s directive on threshold vide circular ref. no SGF/OP/I/S.3/VIII/57 dated March 11, 2009. At the inspection of the project on March 8, 2018, Ayine said it was discovered that in place of the three-storey, four-floor structure, approved, which was awarded for N1bn, a two-storey, three-floor building was constructed. On inquiry, he said the management informed the auditors that the university scaled-down the project as the amount approved was inadequate for the initial structural design approved. READ ALSO: Mixed feelings trailing new Lagos-Ibadan railway line free rides The report said, “This change in structural design was made without an approval of the Federal Ministry of Education. “In the approved Bill of Quantities, a provision of N322,118,363.87 was made for consultancy and contingency. This represents 32.2 per cent of the total sum and in which the items to be procured or activities to be carried out with the sum was not indicated. “Also, there was no request by the contractor to expend this provisional sum.” Ayine in the audit report recommended that the vice-chancellor should be made to account in details for the utilisation of N1bn with relevant approval attestation. He said the total amount should be recovered and evidence of recovery forwarded to his office. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com