Rasheed Bisiriyu Toyota may have taken the auto world by surprise at the ongoing Los Angeles auto show with the unveiling of an electrified performance RAV4. The new premium and fun-to-drive model comes with an estimated 302-horsepower, advanced all-wheel drive, sport-tuned suspension and exclusive design features, according to a statement released by Toyota on its website. This is coming even as the fifth-generation RAV4 on the market barely a year is said to be doing exceedingly well and has surpassed the record of its predecessor in terms of sales. Toyota says the new vehicle has the ability to do 0-60 mph in a projected 5.8 seconds, described as the second quickest acceleration time in the Toyota lineup. It notes that it is the first-ever RAV4 plug-in hybrid electric vehicle and can travel estimated 39 miles on battery alone on a single charge, “which is the highest EV range of any PHEV SUV on the market. The RAV4 Prime also has a manufacturer-estimated 90 combined MPGe. The Toyota RAV4 Prime coming as a 2021 model will arrive in 2020 is unarguably the most powerful and quickest RAV4 ever produced, just as the automaker says it is also the most fuel-efficient. Toyota discloses that the 2021 RAV4 Prime will be available in SE and XSE grades, both emphasising athletic on-road performance and premium comfort and style. “With its plug-in hybrid technology advancing, Toyota sees such vehicles as critical to an overall electrification strategy that will also include standard hybrids and battery electric vehicles, along with fuel cell electric vehicles like the second-generation Mirai unveiled in October. “The Toyota RAV4 Prime builds on the RAV4 Hybrid, which is currently the most powerful and most fuel-efficient model in the line with sales up 72 per cent over last year and currently the best-selling hybrid vehicle on the market,” it states. The new vehicle is said to amplify both performance and efficiency, reflecting Toyota’s over 20 years of hybrid vehicle leadership. It says, “With more powerful motor-generators, a newly developed high-capacity Lithium-Ion battery and a booster converter, the 2021 RAV4 Prime yields an 83-horsepower (hp) jump in total system output over the RAV4 Hybrid and has the most horsepower in its segment. “The resulting boost in performance is striking: Toyota projects 0-60 mph acceleration in 5.8 seconds which is quicker than the RAV4 Hybrid (7.8 sec) and in a league with luxury/performance SUVs that come nowhere near this Toyota’s remarkable fuel economy. And, notably, the RAV4 Prime uses regular-grade gasoline (petrol).” The XSE steps up the sport, luxury and tech with RAV4’s first-ever paddle shifters, along with moonroof, unique SofTex synthetic leather seat surfaces. Interior It also enjoys wireless smartphone charging, ambient lighting, auto-dimming rearview mirror with integrated garage door opener and the largest multimedia screen in any RAV4 ever. “The standard Audio Plus system comes with a 9-inch touch-screen and there is an available Premium Audio that includes Dynamic Navigation and JBL speaker system,” it adds. It has a long roster of active-safety technologies and capabilities including a Pre-Collision System with Pedestrian Detection, Full-Speed Range Dynamic Radar Cruise Control and Lane Departure Alert with Steering Assist. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  