Matthew Ochei, Asaba A suspected leader of a notorious criminal gang and alleged killer of the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa’s aide, one Kingsley Ekugbo, has been killed following a shootout with policemen in the state. The deceased and his gang members were believed to be responsible for a series of kidnappings and robberies across the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Onome Onowakpoyeya, who confirmed Ekugbo’s death in a statement, said the deceased was believed to be responsible for the murder of the former aide to the governor, Lawrence Ijieh, in February during the 2019 general elections. Onowkpoyeya stated that the 27-year-old Ekugbo was also believed to be responsible for the murder of one Obus Sophrum at Igbiki in August and one Oghene at Iyara, Warri, three months ago, among others. She said Ekugbo was trailed by the anti-kidnapping unit of the command to his hideout in the Ubeji community, where he allegedly opened fire on the operatives, who responded with superior firepower The PPRO stated, “The deceased was responsible for several killings, which included the murder of one Obus Sophrum, who was killed at Igbiki in the same local government area on August 29, 2019, one Lawrence Akpomiemie Ngozi Ijieh, a former special assistant to the state governor, who was killed in February 2019 shortly before the general elections, and one Oghene, who was killed at Iyara, Warri, on September 17, 2019, among others. “On sighting the police, the suspect opened fire and the police responded with superior firepower. “In the ensuing gun battle, the suspect sustained gunshot wounds. He was pursued, arrested and rushed to the Police Clinic in Warri, but was later pronounced dead by a doctor in the hospital. One locally-made pistol with three live cartridges was recovered from him.” She said the suspect had been on the wanted list of the command and had been declared wanted for various crimes, adding that the corpse had been deposited in the mortuary of the Central Hospital, Agbor, for autopsy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 