Friday Olokor, Abuja The Akin Fadeyi Foundation in partnership with the Federal Road Safety Corps with support from MacArthur Foundation recently unveiled FLAG’IT, a mobile and web application designed to enable government institutions embrace transparency and accountability. With FLAG’IT app, citizens can conveniently express their grievances on poor service delivery and get remedy within reasonable time. The app also has a feature for documenting positive encounters with credible and outstanding public officers. The goal, which the AFF seeks to achieve through this platform is to bring citizens closer to government and its agencies. The unveiling, which was held at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre was attended by representatives from civil society organisations, government agencies, the press, schools and members of the general public. The Executive Director of the AFF, Akin Fadeyi, was represented by the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of The Cable and Chairman Board of Trustees of the Foundation, Simon Kolawole. Kolawole reiterated the goal of the AFF to ensure that Nigeria becomes a country where every citizen live fulfilling lives and are able to utilize their human and social capital to the full extent. The Corps Marshall, FRSC, Dr  Boboye Oyeyemi, said corruption had occupied a large space in the country and that the FRSC has been working on plans to ensure that the agency is rid of corruption. According to him, the acceptance of the FRSC to make use of the app was an effort to advance its policy of zero tolerance for corruption by its staff. He also called on other government agencies to take advantage of the anti-corruption app to make Nigeria, a better society. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, represented by the Special Adviser to the President on Rule of Law, Fatima Waziri-Azi commended the FLAG’IT app innovation as aligning with the government’s commitment to fighting corruption because it keys into the national anti-corruption strategy. The Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay , in his keynote address acknowledged the role of civil society organisations in fighting corruption. Their absence in such fight, he said, would be an attempt to control flood and erosion with palm tree. The Africa Director of MacArthur Foundation, Dr Kole Shettima, commended the Akin Fadeyi Foundation and FRSC for the successful partnership and stated that Nigerian citizens have a responsibility to make the country what they want without always waiting for the individuals occupying leadership positions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 