Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Personnel of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a member of an armed robbery syndicate, Michael Edeh, for hijacking a truck loaded with 480 bags of cocoa. Members of the syndicate allegedly tied the hands and legs of the driver before hijacking the truck along the Sagamu-Benin Expressway. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abeokuta on Sunday. Oyeyemi said the incident occurred on Saturday and was busted by the patrol team of the Obalende Division in Ijebu-Ode. He stated, “The suspect was arrested following information received by the patrol team attached to the Obalende Division in Ijebu-Ode that a truck with number plate Lagos KTU 286 SQ loaded with 480 bags of cocoa was being attacked at gunpoint along the Sagamu/Ijebu-Ode Expressway by armed men numbering about six. “On receiving the information, the team headed for the scene, but on sighting the policemen, the hoodlums took to their heels and escaped into the bush. “The bush was thoroughly combed, resulting in the arrest of Michael Edeh, who has been interrogated and confessed to being a member of a robbery syndicate that specialises in hijacking trucks loaded with goods along the road at gunpoint. READ ALSO: Man bags life imprisonment for abducting Ondo monarch’s wife “The suspect, who claimed to be living at the Isheri-Osun area of Lagos State, explained that he and other members of the group used to meet at a point on the expressway to plan for who and when to strike. “The truckload of cocoa was recovered, while the truck driver, whose hands and legs were tied in the bush, was rescued.” Oyeyemi added that the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad for discreet investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com