A section of the popular Kara cattle market along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway was gutted by fire on Tuesday morning. The correspondents of the News Agency of Nigeria who visited the market gathered from some eyewitnesses and traders and residents that no less than 40 shops, five storage facilities, 20 residential rooms, and cash, all worth millions of naira were lost to the inferno. They added that the goods in the shops and storage facilities include provisions, animal feeds, and food items. Three vehicles were also burnt. READ ALSO: Mob sets Dangote trucks ablaze after crushing two to death in Ogun Some of the operators at the market expressed thanks to God that no life was lost from what they described as a ‘ mysterious’ fire. The Secretary of the sellers in the market, Mr Adewale Akeweje, said some of his members had removed their wares from their shops before the raging fire became uncontrollable. Ajeweje, however, said that nobody could ascertain how the fire started. “The incident did not affect any life; by the time the fire had spread, some people had already removed their properties. “It affected some shops and some living apartments there. “Personally, I don’t have an idea of what caused it, we heard that some people just saw the fire around the area where rams are sold, ” he said. Akeweje commended the timely response of the Lagos State Fire Service, from the State Secretariat in Alausa that helped to put out the fire. “We were called around 11am, that part of our area at Kara was burning. Before we got there, they had stopped the fire from spreading to other areas. “The firefighters from Alausa really tried,” he said. Also, Tanko Abdullahi, a ram seller, whose stall was not far from the incident, said he was grateful that no life was lost, saying that “as far as there is life, there is hope.” Similarly, Muhammad Shehu, an eyewitness told NAN that the fire was a mystery as no one could ascertain how it started, saying it was a bad way of ending the year. Shehu while relaying his story about one of the burnt vehicles said the owner had come to buy a ram for the new year festivity, only for his car to get burnt beyond recognition. “The other two vehicles parked there did not get damaged beyond recognition, this one just couldn’t be helped. “The owner came to buy ram, I saw him when he parked the car before I left the area for a while. “The next thing I heard was that the area was on fire, how that happened is still a mystery. We thank God that no life was lost,” he said. Also, the Assistant General-Secretary of the market, Mr Sani Mohammed, said the cause of the inferno still remained a mystery to the market officials and the populace. Mohammed told NAN  that the inferno remained a mystery because all investigations by the market officials and the Lagos State Fire Service revealed no particular cause as of press time. Mohammed said, “All I heard where I sat was fire! fire!! fire!!! Within a few seconds, there was chaos while everyone was running for his or her life. “However, efforts are still ongoing to ascertain the cause of the inferno.” Mohammed said the market had never recorded a history of fire outbreak for years.