Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 42-year-old man, Taofeek Oyeyemi, for allegedly impregnating his 16-year-old daughter. It was gathered that Oyeyemi took the victim to a quack doctor to procure abortion after discovering that she was pregnant for him. The suspect is said to be a father of 17 children from different women. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said in a statement on Thursday that Taofeek was apprehended after the daughter reported the abortion to her mother. He explained that it was the mother, who reported the matter at the Ewekoro Police Station and the suspect was subsequently arrested. The PPRO stated that the victim had been bleeding since the abortion was performed on her. The statement read in part, “A 42-year-old man, Taofeek Oyeyemi, has been arrested by operatives of the Ogun State Police Command for impregnating his 16-year-old daughter. “The suspect was arrested following a complaint by the mother of the victim, who reported at the Ewekoro Police Station that her daughter, who was living with her ex-husband, informed her that she was impregnated by her father, who also took her to a quack medical practitioner for abortion. “She explained that since the abortion was carried out, the victim had being bleeding. “On the strength of the report, the DPO, Ewekoro Division, SP Rotimi Jeje, detailed his JWC section to go after the suspect and he was eventually arrested. “The suspect, who was said to have 17 children from different women, on interrogation confessed to have slept with the victim several times, which resulted in her pregnancy. READ ALSO: Badeh’s suspected killers not arraigned one year after “In order for his secret not to be exposed, he decided to procure an abortion for the girl. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the victim’s mother had separated from the suspect years back and the victim had been living with her until about six months ago when the suspect forcefully took the girl away from her mother. “All efforts made by the mother to take custody of her daughter proved abortive. It was when the mother came to visit her daughter that she discovered the great atrocity committed by the suspect against the daughter.” The PPRO said the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had directed that the suspect be transferred to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 