’Femi Asu Standard Chartered Bank has said bank customers can withdraw money from any of its Automated Teller Machines without being charged N65. The bank also assured its customers at the launch of its digital bank on Monday that SMS notifications sent to them and transfers within Nigeria “are absolutely free.” In addition, Standard Chartered Bank announced Nigerian icon, Damini Ogulu, also known as ‘Burna Boy’, as its digital bank ambassador. Launching to the public on Monday, the bank said its digital offering marked an important milestone in the path towards innovation and productivity transformation in Nigeria. It said the service was designed with continuous feedback from its clients, adding that the digital bank empowered customers to bank on their terms. The bank said in order to further disrupt the traditional banking sector in the country, Burna Boy would be promoting Standard Chartered Digital Bank in Nigeria by lending his voice and image rights through a series of marketing and other engagement activities over the next 12 months. Commenting on the new collaboration, the Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria, Lamin Manjang, said, “We are thrilled to be working with the multitalented Burna Boy to launch our digital bank. “Burna Boy is an inspiration, not only due to his musical experience, but also because of passion and commitment towards youth empowerment and placing Nigeria on the global scene. “His passion for empowering the youths and positively amplifying the Nigerian brand are very much in line with the bank, making him an ideal partner for this momentous new offering. READ ALSO: Buhari administration met $63.81bn debt, says DMO “Going digital also means progression, not just for our business, but also for our clients, and we look forward to this new journey in banking.” The Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Nigeria, Dayo Aderugbo, said Burna Boy was the natural choice to partner with for digital banking. “This partnership opens up a great opportunity to contribute to the social and economic wellbeing of the country where we have been operating since 1999,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 