Wale Oyewale The Registrar, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Prof. Segun Ajiboye, said on Sunday that a total of 53,674 candidates passed the November diet of the Professional Qualification Examination organised by the council to certify teachers in the country. According to the Registrar, 72,947 took the examinations in various centres across the country. The don, while addressing journalists in Ibadan, said a total of 19,273 failed the test. He expressed satisfaction at the Nigerian teachers’ commitment to excellence despite the challenges they face in line of duty. According to him, Lagos State topped the list of those who registered for the examination with 8,224 candidates. Of this number, he said 6,067 passed the examination. “This is followed by Oyo State with about 5,599 registered candidates where a total of 4,243 passed. The next is Kaduna where 3,769 passed out of 4,008 who registered for the examination.” Ajiboye, who said the professional qualification examination was a continuous exercise, urged teachers who had not yet qualified to register for the next diet to escape being sanctioned. READ ALSO: CBN slashes banks’ ATM withdrawal fee to N35 “It is a continuous thing and the door is still open to those who have not registered to do so. And those who failed the examination still have opportunities of retaking the examination. The close of the deadline does not mean that PQE has stopped. “Registration for the next diet of the examination has commenced in all TRCN offices nationwide. We appreciate the commitment of the Nigerian teachers to excellent delivery in spite of the challenges they face and the support given to TRCN in its efforts to reposition the teaching profession in the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 