Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi President Muhammadu Buhari has conferred the National Productivity Order of Merit Award on the Director of Safety Electronics and Engineering Services of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, Mr Umar Farouk. The honour, according to the Presidency, is in recognition of his contributions towards the improvement of communication, navigation and surveillance facilities to ensure safe and efficient air traffic services in the country’s airspace. Farouk made the list of 25 notable Nigerians and seven organisations that received the award. In a statement by NAMA, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who represented President Buhari, said his administration was committed to the promotion of the ideals of a productive nation. He stated that given the significant role of productivity in wealth creation, employment generation, social progress and improved standard of living, there was a need to entrench the culture of productivity and excellence in the psyche of all Nigerians. The President asked the awardees to redouble their efforts towards making Nigeria a better and more productive country. Farouk said the recognition by the President would help him to work harder for the development of the nation. He said he was optimistic that Nigeria was on the right path of growth and development given the efforts of the present administration. Farouk advised Nigerians, particularly his colleagues at NAMA to imbibe the virtues of hard work, perseverance and dedication to duty. According to the statement, Farouk attended Government Science Secondary School, Birnin Kebbi and the Federal University of Technology, Minna, where he bagged a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering. “He later enrolled at the Lagos State University where he obtained a Master’s degree in Business Administration in 1999. He also bagged another Master’s degree in International Affairs and Diplomacy from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaira in 2009,” the statement read in part. It added that Farouk, a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers and Chartered Institute of Administration, was in 2018 also conferred with the fellowship of the Nigerian Institution of Mechanical Engineers, and had served NAMA in various capacities including airspace manager, Minna airport and general manager, special projects. In 2016, he rose to the position of substantive director, Safety Electronics and Engineering Services, a position he occupies to date, according to NAMA. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 