Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo A farmer, Friday Achalla, has been arrested by the police for killing a herdsman, Bonu Usmon, in Ikire, Osun State. PUNCH Metro learnt that Achalla and Usmon had a misunderstanding in the Sumoye area of the town on Monday, which degenerated into a fight and the eventual death of the herdsman. Achalla, it was gathered, was in his farm when Usmon approached him and inquired about his lost cow, asking the farmer if he had sighted the animal. The farmer, who accused Usmon of invading his farm with cows in the past, was said to have been infuriated and the two men reportedly engaged in a fight. Usmon, it was further learnt, stabbed Achalla, and in retaliation, the farmer was said to have inflicted a deep machete cut on the deceased. Another farmer in the Sumoye area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that the deceased, who ran out of the scene in pain, was rushing back to the town when he slumped, having lost a lot of blood as a result of the injury. The acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mustafa Katayeyanjue, told PUNCH Metro that the suspect had been arrested. He explained that the incident happened around 2.30pm on Monday. Katayeyanjue stated, “A herder, Bonu Usmon, was reportedly found bleeding profusely from a deep machete cut on his left hand and he was subsequently rushed to the Catholic Hospital, Oluyoro, Apomu, for medical attention. “But he died while receiving treatment due to excessive loss of blood. His remains have been deposited in the hospital’s morgue for autopsy.” According to him, preliminary investigation revealed that Achalla, who was arrested where he was seeking medical intervention, also had a cut. Katayeyanjue stated, “The suspect was found with a deep cut on his left hand, which he allegedly sustained when he challenged the deceased for destroying his crops by leading cows to graze in the area. “The two men fought and Achalla inflicted injuries on the deceased. Investigation is in progress.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 