Ife Ogunfuwa The Nigerian Communications Commission is developing regulations that will allow telecom operators to lease spectrum to one another. The Executive Vice Chairman of the commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta, disclosed this at the Demo launch of 5G Network in Lagos. Danbatta, who was represented by the NCC’s Lagos Zonal Coordinator, Mr Henry Ojiokpota, stated that the regulations would address the challenges associated with unavailable spectrum in the industry. According to him, the infrastructure sharing regulations, which is still at the draft stage, will drive competition in the utilisation of 5G in Internet of Things and smart cities, among others. “The NCC is looking at rolling out infrastructure sharing regulations, which is still at the draft stage. We believe such regulations will be able to resolve the issues of the spectrum and help operators to lease spectrum to one another and move the telecom industry forward,” Danbatta said. He also explained that the telecom regulator was still consulting with the National Assembly regarding the national infrastructure bill, which he said was at the final stage. He said once the bill was signed into law, telecom infrastructure across the country would be adequately protected. “We will continue to consult with the National Assembly on the national infrastructure bill and it is in the final stage.  Hopefully, when it is signed, and it becomes active, the infrastructure will be protected,” he added. Meanwhile, the NCC has expressed excitement at the Demo launch of 5GNetwork by MTN Nigeria, noting 5G remained the key to the future that would support significantly faster mobile broadband speeds, which is one of the commission’s agenda. “The 5G represents the bedrock of future communications and Nigeria cannot afford not to be part of that future. The NCC is excited about what MTN is doing today because they are actually opening up the future,” Ojiokpota said. He said the commercial launch of 5G would support businesses’ innovative ambitions and create new markets, transform supply chain management as well as create smarter and more efficient manufacturing. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com