Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Federal Road Safety Corps said it has deployed a total of 1,700 personnel comprising regular and special marshals to oversee traffic activities on highways across Ogun State. The FRSC said the highways to be monitored include the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway; Sagamu- Ijebu Ode; Sagamu-Mosinmi-Ikorodu; Abeokuta-Sagamu; Abeokuta-Ibadan; Abeokuta-Ifo-Sango-Ota-Lagos corridors , as well as the  Ota-Idiroko international  corridor. In a statement signed by the Route Commander and Public Education Officer, FRSC, Ogun State Sector Command, Florence Okpe, the corps said it would commence the ‘2019 Ember Months  Special Patrol  Operations’ from  December 19, 2019 to January  20, 2020. The FRSC said, “The special patrol operations would focus on excessive speed; dangerous driving; wrongful overtaking; lane indiscipline; use of phone while driving; seat belt violation; overloading violation; tyre violation. “Speed limiting device violation; unlatched vehicles violation; child restraint violation; passengers manifest violation by commercial vehicles and use of drugs and intoxicating alcoholic beverages while driving.” The command stated that to achieve results, it would deploy 35 patrol vehicles, four advanced life support ambulances, five patrol motor bikes and one heavy duty tow truck, among others. It added that it would be assisted by sister security and emergency agencies for easy intervention in traffic distress from the boundaries of Ogun State with neighbouring states of Lagos, Oyo and Ondo states. The FRSC Ogun State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, was quoted as saying motorists should use the roads responsibly. He stated that any motorist apprehended flouting traffic rules during the Yuletide may be treated as driving dangerously and could be prosecuted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 