Tony Okafor, Awka The Oraifite community in the Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State has banned the activities of members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in the area. Also banned in the community were six masquerader groups. This followed the fracas that claimed the lives of two police officers in the community on Monday. Our correspondent gathered that the Monday feud was allegedly ignited by rival masquerade cults in the area before some people suspected to be members of IPOB infiltrated them. An Assistant Commissioner of Police and Assistant Superintendent of Police were killed in the violence. The Oraifite Improvement Union in a statement on Wednesday in Awka, described the action as lawless and avoidable. The President General of Oraifite Improvement Union, Offor Uche, and the traditional ruler of Oraifite, Igwe Daniel Udeoji, signed the statement on behalf of the community. They said, “The leadership of Oraifite town cannot keep quiet and allow criminal gangs, cultists and miscreants take over the town and tarnish the image of the good people of Oraifite. “What happened on December 2, 2019, leading to the killing of some men of the Nigerian Police Force was uncharacteristic of Oraifite culture and tradition. “The acts are condemned without equivocation in its totality. The good and peace-loving people of Oraifite totally dissociate themselves from the acts of the criminals responsible for the abomination. Meanwhile, the IPOB on Wednesday said the declaration of Nnamdi Kanu’s lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, wanted by the police was to kill the group’s struggle for a republic. It described the declaration as baseless and laughable. The Anambra Police Command had on Tuesday declared Ejiofor wanted in respect of the alleged killing of two police officers on Monday. But in a statement by IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group said the main reason for the declaration was to intimidate lawyers from taking up briefs from its members. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   