Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission has said the Electoral Reform Amendment Bill will resolve the “mischief” arising from the limitations of the Electoral Act with regard to the use of permanent voter cards and smart card readers in elections. The INEC Director of Voter Education and Publicity, Osaze Oluwole-Uzzi, who spoke on Politics Today, a live programme of Channels Television, on Thursday, admitted that the Electoral Act did not recognise the use of the PVCs and card readers. Asked to comment on the “technological deficits” in the Electoral Act, Oluwole-Uzzi, said, “When you talk about ‘deficit’ as if there is something lacking; the truth of the matter is that full-blown technological intervention in our electoral process has been built up over the years. “It started, for example, with the introduction of an electronic register of voters because, before you talk of anything electronic, a base must be established. And a register of voters is the very base of the electoral process.” He stated that INEC had accomplished the aforementioned with “a very high degree of certainty and fidelity.” According to him, the PVC was the next step, followed by the card reader, which could read the biometrics of the registered voters. “But there’s been this controversy over the card reader because it doesn’t entrench into the Electoral Act. It’s just a guideline of the commission, that is, a by-law. “There is, I recall, an interpretation of the Supreme Court that this should be part of the Electoral Act for it to take precedence over a manual process. That, I think, is part of the mischief, if you will, that the new amendment bill is to address. “There is (also) the transmission of results and collation. If you look at the Electoral Act, as it stands, it is a manual process,” he added. On the high fees paid by aspirants to obtain parties’ nomination forms, Oluwole-Uzzi argued that INEC was not empowered to regulate the costs of the forms. He said, “Honestly, it is not for the regulator to say whether fees charged by political parties are expensive or not. I believe that there must be some basis that parties arrive at those figures. “Since our laws do not allow us to put a cap on nomination fees because the Electoral Act specifically excludes nomination fees as part of the computation of costs of elections in terms of how much a candidate should spend, we have not really considered that very well.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com