Abiodun Nejo and Hindi Livinus One person was killed and four others injured as violence erupted at a polling unit at Okitiko, along Ikere Ekiti during the Ekiti State local government election on Saturday. It was learnt that trouble started when some suspected hoodlums invaded the polling booths to snatch the ballot boxes from the officials of the Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission but were resisted. It was also learnt that the gunshots fired by the hoodlums forced the electoral officials and others to flee for their lives. While some sources said the man, who was among those rushed to an undisclosed hospital due to gunshot injuries, was feared dead, others in the area confirmed that the deceased died before arriving at hospital. But the Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, said he had not been briefed about the development at Ikere Ekiti. Meanwhile, the election witnessed a low turnout across the state. Electoral officers arrived at their units in Ado Ekiti, Ilawe Ekiti and Ikere Ekiti among others on time and waited for the voters to cast their votes. The election was largely peaceful. The All Progressives Congress State Chairman, Mr Paul Omotoso, who voted at Imesi Ekiti in Gbonyin council, said the low turnout was usual with local government elections. But the Peoples Democratic Party State Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, said the opposition party would not accept the results of the council polls, which he alleged was marred with irregularities and ballot box stuffing. Oguntuwase said, “From what we hear all over, the election is riddled with violence. As I speak with you, it is believed that they have shot one person dead as one or two persons were injured.” The PDP chairman, who said his party had earlier warned SIEC on the repercussion of an election that was not free and fair, said, his party would make consultations with PDP leaders and “take the necessary step”. The council election also held in Adamawa State on Saturday was marred by low voter turnout and apathy. Election observers and party agents, who spoke after polls opened around 9:30am in most polling units visited, lamented the poor turnout of voters at the polls. An agent of the Social Democratic Party, John Omadu, at polling Unit 9, Bayero Mungushi,Luggere ward, said he was satisfied with the peaceful conduct of elections, though card readers were ruled out for the exercise. At Unit 10, Manu Gaji Lugere ward, where polls also opened at exactly 9:30 am, a chieftain of the APC, Usman Mauludu, said, “The reason for the poor turnout is because people are not taking the elections serious since the local government elections conducted by the ruling party is usually not allowed to be free and fair. READ ALSO: Dad’s death has paralysed his community — Son of ex-principal killed in Ondo “The conclusion is that the ruling party will dominate the outcomes of the polls. But we will wait and see if their promise to conduct free and fair and polls will be upheld.” The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, cast his vote at 1pm at the New Government House polling unit. A former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, voted at his Bako ward in Yola South Local Government Area. As of the time of filling this report, results in some of the councils where the election began earlier were being collated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 