Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has said that more women would be appointed into top management positions in the Nigeria Police Force. He disclosed that five female officers would soon be elevated to the rank of Commissioner of Police as part of a deliberate effort to place more women in managerial positions. Addressing the 2019 Nigeria Police Force Women’s conference in Abuja on Wednesday, the IG said female police officers have demonstrated intelligence and capability and had shown that they could compete favourably with their male counterparts in critical engagements. Adamu noted that the force had over the years put in place gender sensitivity policies, adding that this informed the establishment of the office of the Force Gender Advisor as well as the Gender Unit of the Force Intelligence Bureau. He said, “We have produced several women police officers who have and are still holding strategic positions as Commissioners of Police, Assistant Inspector-General of Police and Deputy Inspector-General of Police. Very soon, more women police officers would be appointed into managerial positions and five would be elevated to the rank of CP.” He asked the conference to come up with a communique containing action plans that could assist the police leadership in advancing the interest of women officers. READ ALSO: Refund my N45,000 dowry before leaving, husband tells divorce-seeking wife CP, Force Animal Branch, Aishatu Abubakar, said the forum would give the participants the opportunity to brainstorm on issues relating to indiscipline, corruption, the responsibility of women police officers, retirement plan, financial responsibility, social media usage and mentoring. She asked for more roles for women police officers, noting that they could perform well with the level of their intelligence and persuasive skills. “We want to assure the IG that the outcome of this conference will enhance the performance of women police in particular and also improve the overall image of the force,” Abubakar assured.