Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt A man in his early 40s has committed suicide by hanging himself on a mango tree outside his apartment in Ozuoba, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The man, who was identified as Enietie Edem, was said to have hanged himself around 4.30am on Saturday without leaving a suicide note. Residents described Edem as a good man, adding that the father of one from Akwa Ibom State did not have any misunderstanding with his neighbours. It was learnt that the police came to the compound and arrested the man’s live-in lover before the corpse was taken away. It was also gathered that the man had complained to some of his friends that his lover was keeping late nights. One of the residents said Edem was a very huge man, but began to lose weight at a point before he took his own life. The resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “The man was from Akwa Ibom State and very friendly. It is true that the man was huge before, but he had emaciated. I believe that his loss of weight was because he had no job. His action could be as a result of marital issues. “It could be that the lover stay late outside. The man talked about it with his neighbours. Even as the police came to arrest the partner, she was saying the same thing that the man was complaining about her staying out late in the night. But he never told anybody that he would kill himself.” Another resident, who also spoke on condition of     anonymity, said Edem began losing weight at a point before he took his life, adding that his joblessness could have led him to commit suicide. The resident stated, “We just came this morning and saw this. Maybe he was tired of life before he killed himself. He was a very hefty man when we knew him; later, he began to emaciate. READ ALSO: Get me Ejiara, not Eze –Rohr tells NFF “The police came in and arrested his partner. I knew him as a good man and he had no problems with anybody. The man had no job, but was only manning the house he was living in for somebody. The owner of the house does not live around here.” A man, who simply identified himself as Ibekwe, explained that the deceased might have decided to kill himself after suffering hardship. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, told our correspondent that he had not been briefed on the matter, adding that he travelled outside the state and only got back on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com