You recently queried the funds that had accrued to the state since 1998 and compared it with the level of development in the state, what is your justification for that? That is our bone of contention. It just does not match. Where has all this money gone? We do not have any good university, no good teaching hospital, no teachers’ welfare, no robust bursary for students, no robust pension arrangements, no good civil service commission package, and so many things are not in place in Lagos. Look at the fourth mainland bridge and light rail projects that have always been in the budget. You have the Eko Atlantic City that is there sapping money and not of benefit to the state, I am very sure 90 per cent of the citizens of the state do not know where it is. The Lagos roads have become big potholes and death traps in the past number of years. For 10 years now, the Oduduwa Crescent in GRA Ikeja has been in a terrible state, it is just one out of the many others in the state. As a party, we would start investigating some of the projects that they claimed they are executing as from next year. Lagos cannot even boost of a world-class international stadium like that in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State that attracts foreign clubs. We would visit the projects that the APC has claimed to have done in Lagos State and begin to ask critical questions. We are also going to be asking our three senators representing the state in the National Assembly what they have been doing with regards to the development of the state. We do we have so much influx of people from Boko-Haram ridden states to Lagos? We have an influx of people from Boko Haram-ridden states into Lagos and the Federal Government is not doing anything about it. Lagos has become an Internally Displaced Persons state, what is the governor and our senators doing about this? The governor is there but unfortunately, he is in the middle of the sea and does not know where to turn to because he is swimming in debt. So, we cannot even attack the governor seating there today. Look at the Lagos State University in Ojo, he said he was to do a Public-Private-Partnership to build a hostel for students; he also wants to do PPP on fourth mainland bridge, PPP on tax collection and so many other projects. He is doing this because the coffers of the state are dry. This is a state that owes over 10 per cent of the national debt. They should tell us how they service the debt monthly because, from records available, the state owes over N2trn. That kind of debt shows that we pay back billions every month to service debt and someone will tell us that Lagos State can withstand debt. The capacity of every state is determined by what can generate as revenue, so, Lagos is going to continue to overtax the people to pay that debt and that is the danger of debt management. That is why we have said that the PDP are managers of debt, those that have accumulated the debts cannot be the ones to renegotiate its settlement, it is new management that will renegotiate and work towards cancelling the debts for us to move forward. But the PDP seemed dormant over the years, why was it so? Yes, the PDP in the past has not taken its rightful place as opposition in the state. However, under the new dawn that has set in the PDP, I will like to assure the public that we are now ready to take our rightful position as a strong opposition in Lagos. What has prompted this is the fact that the APC chairman was quoted to have said that the PDP is not destined to win elections in Lagos State. You can only say that when you are bold enough to say that you do not rig elections. We know what happens during elections and all we need to do is to put our house to meet them in the field man-for-man. We have started internal house cleaning to get our house in order and revitalising our structures at the wards, local government, and state levels. We do not see our members as defectors to the APC, we see that as if they have gone on a journey and will return home. All we need to do is to ensure that we set the stage. A lot of people in Lagos are not happy, they are disenchanted. In Lagos where you have over 20 million people, only slightly over one million people came out to vote in the last election and that is because they have made their voters’ card worthless. They have been subverted over the years over a regime of oppression, depression, and one that does not give hope. We are talking about the fourth mainland bridge for the past 10 years and suddenly they wish to concession a project they have not started. The residents of the state will now be subjected to a capitalist government. For God’s sake, it is time Lagosians moved from this level to another one, I won’t say the next level because they have spoilt that usage. The problem of the PDP not being able to win the state is that of internal crisis, how do you hope to manage the division in the party? My emergence as chairman of the party is what you look at. The head of the NWC of the party, Uche Secondus, sent a fact-finding body headed by Ben Obi to Lagos to find out what is wrong with the party. At the end of it, what came out of that encounter was that constant imposition was the bane of our problem and that was the reason why the PDP lost in the Bayelsa State.  The National Working Committee of the party insisted that there must be an election into these positions and he followed the constitution. The process by which anyone would come in as chairman would not be by imposition, selection or nomination but be by the people themselves to elect who becomes the chairman of the party and that is what has happened in this case and a lot of other cases. We were all voted for and that is the beginning of the unity we have today, but that is not to say that, like in the APC, we do not have some moles. We have located and identified them and we have put them in the cooler. We have 85 per cent unified the party. Since I emerged, three court cases by three individuals have been withdrawn without any condition. What about the case instituted by the former chairman of the party, Dr Adegbola Dominic, has it been vacated? What happened was this. They went to court to obtain an ex parte order in which the judge specifically said that she was not supposed to get involved based on the Supreme Court judgment involving Ahmed Markafi and Ali Modu-Sherriff that the court does not have any jurisdiction over the internal matter of a political party. However, we were not served the notice on time, but a court date was fixed and we also had another case in court involving the Zamfara governorship election in which the same lawyer was handling. The Zamfara matter became preeminent and it was handled by the same lawyer. So, our lawyer went to Abuja and he eventually won the case but he did not make the necessary preparations for the Lagos case and that was how the lawyer took advantage of that and said we should be remanded in prison. In legal matters, there is nothing to run away from.  They have adjourned till February and we will be there. Are there plans to find a political solution to all these? In politics there are discussions. Negotiations are ongoing and we believe they have to go through some elements of truth. Lagos State PDP has capped for a long time and it is the truth that will set us free otherwise we would all just be wallowing in the same euphoria of hopelessness. We are consulting with our leaders and begging them to see reasons with us on different issues. We are trying as much as possible to convince them that we can do it with the necessary support and I believe that with time, we will get to a point where the 99 per cent of our leaders will be behind us. What is the party doing to win the confidence of the electorate in Lagos ahead of the 2023 elections? Well, it is not in my character to expose our strategy and plans to win votes in the 2023 elections. However, we have commenced in-house cleaning to strengthen our structures. If you go to some senatorial districts in the state you will observe that we have the electorate who want to vote, but they want their votes to count. We would ensure that their votes count in that election and I believe that that is going to bring them out. Are you not worried that a lot of your members are defecting to the ruling APC and you hardly have APC members defecting to the PDP? Any political party will be worried if their members are defecting no matter their electoral value. So, you do not expect me to say that I am not worried that one or two of my members are defecting to the APC. If I have five members that have gone to other political parties I will be worried. However, I must say that what you call grassroots is still there, they have not defected. Yes, some leaders have moved to the APC but they have not moved with the grassroots and when you say grassroots, it is huge numbers. So, when you have 1,000 left in a grassroots of over one million people, it is quite insignificant. But, we are worried that something has moved. Agreed, some leaders of the PDP have defected to the APC, but the grassroots have not moved with them. How would you react to the insinuation that some leaders of the party are only out there to make money and they are not interested in the development of the party? I do not think that is right because you will not invest in something you do not believe in. Some leaders have begun to invest in the party and it is an indication that what they did not see then, they have seen now. In essence, that narrative is already changing. What happened between yourself and the leader of the party, Chief Olabode George, you used to be very close? Well, I do not have anything against Chief Bode George and there is no assignment that he has given me that I have not executed diligently. However, I have been given an assignment by the National Working Committee of the party and that is what I am carrying out and I do not think that Chief Bode George would not want me to carry out the NWC assignment. But people believe you were his choice governorship candidate in the 2019 primaries of the party… I was not his choice, but he was not also against my aspiration in the last election. He is our father and was convinced that I was the better person for that slot having experienced his relationship with Jimi Agbaje during the 2015 exercise. I believe that he (Bode George) supported me but he did not give me the assignment to be the governorship candidate. I went to meet him and convinced him of my programmes which I have been doing for 16 years and he saw reasons for the first time why he should not go against me. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    