Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta No fewer than 51 persons escaped death in separate accidents that occurred on the Lagos-Ibadan and the Lagos-Abeokuta expressways. It was gathered that out of the 51 persons, who were involved in five road crashes, 26 sustained varying degrees of injury. The Route Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State Command, Florence Okpe, confirmed the crashes in a statement made available to journalists on Monday. Okpe said the accidents, which occurred on Sunday, were caused by excessive speeding and tyre blowout. She explained that the first crash involved a Toyota Sienna with number plate LSR 163 FW, adding that 11 persons were injured in the accident. She said the second accident involved two Dangote trucks with number plates ABS 74 X and YKS 189 XA with no death or injury recorded. Okpe added that the third crash was a lone accident and involved a bus with number plate KUJ 234 AY with 19 persons on board. Ten persons, comprising five male adults, four female adults and one female child, were injured in the crash. The route commander noted that the fourth accident involved a Honda Pilot SUV with number plate KRD 953 FN, adding that two persons sustained injuries  in the crash. She explained that the fifth crash occurred about 100 metres from the Foursquare Gospel Church camp on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and involved 15 persons. Okpe said three persons were injured in the accident. She quoted the Ogun State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Clement Oladele, as advising motorists to drive carefully. Oladele warned motorists to maintain the stipulated 50km per hour maximum speed limit in construction zones as well as refrain from overtaking till they were clearly out of such zones. He reiterated that traffic offenders were liable to be prosecuted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com