Olusola Obabori is the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Red Star Express Plc. In this interview with MAUREEN IHUA-MADUENYI, he speaks on closure of borders, agro business, among other issues In the recent past, the economy went into recession and some sectors are still struggling to recover. What impact did this have on your operations? The year 2016 dealt with a lot of sectors of the economy. That was when we had the dollar-naira exchange fluctuations which took the naira from N180 to a dollar to N360 where it is a bit stable right now. That will tell you that we lost a lot of value as a country and as businesses. That took up the prices of vehicles; we said we won’t buy tokunbo trucks but we had to go back to buying them a few times; now we have a mix of both brand new  and used heavy duty trucks. Whereas in the past, in the last six to seven years, we were buying brand new vehicles. But as prices went up. If, for instance, you buy all the brand new trucks and the customers are not willing to pay for them, it becomes a challenge. How many years will it take to get the cost of the vehicle plus interest? Devaluation happened at the time and we dealt with a lot of that issue. A lot of companies also left Nigeria at the time because they practically went down so there was a bit of a shrink in the market as of that time. But to a large extent, things have bounced back in the last 24 months and there is a lot of volume we are doing now. E-commerce is back in a much bigger scale. Agribusiness is also back as a lot of people have gone back to the farm in the last 24 months to 36 month. In fact, during the recession, a lot of people went back to the farms when they lost their jobs in the banks and other companies. A lot of big bankers had to go back to find other means of sustaining their families. For Red Star, I checked the numbers again, as tough as things were, we did very well. It was one of the best times we had because we had to become ingenious. We had to cut down on cost;we restructured in such a way that certain costs that were not necessary were taken down. We also had to source a lot of our shipping materials locally because we used to do a lot of importation such as flyers from China. But we had to look for local suppliers and even if we couldn’t get the best of quality locally, we had to make do with what was available. It was not totally bad because it brought some of its own learning and we worked on it to improve the product line for customers. So post-recession, how much of the local content have you retained in your operations? Almost everything we learnt we have retained to a large extent. For example, when there was recession, we started our agro logistics line of business. We also isolated our e-commerce business and took it out of the main business so we could pay attention to it and these lines of business have thrived in the last 24 months. This is why we are driving their growth now through our capital raising at the Nigerian Stock Exchange. We tested them during the recession period and it was a good time for us to discover opportunities. How is Nigeria doing in terms of agro export? From 2016 till date, there has been a lot of focus on agro business, many people have secured contracts abroad to supply vegetables and even yam. People export pepper and all kinds of things now. People have also done a lot in terms of supplying cassava chips to other parts of the world. Generally speaking, apart from the local growth we have seen such as people growing things locally, exports are also growing and we are willing to partner companies who are doing agro exports. Packaging was a problem for Nigerian exporters. Has there been an improvement? There has been a lot of improvement. Every problem in the agro space has had some improvement. I was in all manner of conferences in the last three years looking for solutions to all manner of packages for agro products. In Red Star, we have different kinds of packaging cartons designated for different kinds of products. All the problems we had in the past had become learning for a lot of people and there is a lot of information in the public space now. There are a lot of conferences that people attend now to learn how to package agro products and minimise post-harvest losses which is the major issue. Quarantine service is working with the private sector and all of us are working on ideas on how to make it better and there have been a lot of improvements in terms of packaging. You see agro products in pallets at the airside of the airports and they are flying to various markets across the world. In terms of post-harvest losses, there should be a lot of reduction in terms of what we used to have vis-à-vis what we have now. Has the closure of the land border had any impact on your operations and the entire logistics industry in general? I will not say it has had. I checked the numbers lately to be sure but it hasn’t. A lot of people who bring things into Nigeria from those routes are smugglers to a large extent. Those who do legitimate business have nothing to worry about. Majority of the things the government is trying to prevent from those border points are substantially people smuggling all manner of things into the country. And believe me, if we can curb smuggling, it will do the country a lot of good. Why should people make products locally and can’t sell them because people are importing them and making our country a dumping ground? Can we go back to farm so that those other countries are not operating the factories while our own are shutting down? I believe totally that we should encourage local production and develop our country internally. I’m not averse to international trade, without it, there can’t be success in any country because you can’t do it all by yourself but we must prevent smuggling. If you must import and it’s not an illegal item, then you must import legitimately. Nigeria is such a funny country that you will see a truck on the road that has not been properly cleared. Sometimes you see Customs chasing them to go and make the right kind of payment to the government. For Red Star and those who do legitimate business, I do not think the closure has had any direct impact on our businesses. For those who do illegal business, that is a different kettle of fish. The guys who produce locally are now able to produce and sell more but in the past, some of the chicken we eat, for instance, could come from neighbouring countries. Now we need to find the best way to produce them locally so that the cost of production can be better than those importing illegally. What are the major challenges facing this industry? This industry is being faced with many issues. The first is infrastructure, which we all have to face. The government has to focus more on infrastructural development, which is described as infrastructural capital. It is the role of the government to make sure that infrastructure is excellent. The countries around the world that have done well in terms of trade are those that have done well in terms of infrastructure. The best of airports, seaports and roads are important. They are germane to the success of our industry. Some of our airports you can’t fly into them at night because of navigational aids; they are simple things but we are not able to fix them. Can you imagine the opportunities that may be lost because we are not able to fly into those airports in the night? Imagine the planes parked at night flying and making money for the owner. So there is a whole lot that the government can do. Look at the roads across the country, we can see a lot being done but a lot still needs to be done. Lagos/Ibadan Expressway is receiving a lot of attention as we can see but those things have to be fast-tracked.  There are also the issues of security and we need a lot of alignment in terms of border agencies so that we can be more competitive. Do you share the view that mergers and acquisitions can solve some of the industry’s problems? Absolutely.  I try to use an analogy that the leg of an elephant is better than the head of a rat because a rat is still a rat and an elephant is an elephant. You should rather be the leg of an elephant that can make impact than to be the head of a rat that cannot make impact. So you don’t need a company that is small when you can have collaboration with other bigger companies; you can get bigger by working with organisations that are already big. So if there is a room for merger or acquisition or collaboration, I think those smaller companies should not shy away from them. What has been your experience running a logistics and supply chain firm? I have been here running this business for over three years. But in total I have been in this company for 20 years. Running a logistics company has prospect; it is an exerting environment that will keep you on your toes.  In this industry, you have to be awake; if you are sleeping, you won’t function well. You have to be alert permanently because the dynamics are changing so rapidly that if you are not attentive to details, you may miss out on opportunities. It is also a lot of trouble that you have to deal with in terms of responding to the needs of customers because primarily, it is about customer satisfaction. So, it is a bag of two things: excitement, if you are happy with what you are doing, and challenges too. For me, I enjoy it. What are the most challenging and most rewarding aspects of running a logistics company? The most rewarding is taking care of customers’ interests. There is a philosophy of the PSP – People, Service and Profit; meaning, if you are with the right type of people who are well remunerated and motivated, they will deliver the service you want them to deliver. For example, in Red Star, we have about 30 products that we offer within the group. When you offer the kind of service that customers are looking for or solve the problems of customers, that translates into profit because I can charge the right type of fee. This is why we are not at the bottom of our industry. We are among the top two.  We don’t come very cheap; we charge well for the services that you want us to render, to the best of our ability, using the best of resources that we are sure can deliver as you have asked. If I have terms of agreement with you, I want to work with the terms of that agreement to deliver excellent service which comes at a fee. But the reward for a job well done is more work, which means you have to stay on top of the game and fight a lot of the deficiencies that the market may throw at you. The issues we deal with in this country include infrastructure deficiency. Despite these problems, the opportunities are still there. For instance, if your truck takes off from Lagos to Ibadan with the current state of the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway and you have about five of them, that means a lot in terms of running those trucks. They may not get to their destinations in good time. What is the impact on the health of your workers and maintenance? So there are rewards; there are also constraints here and there. But in all, I think the rewards are more than the constraints. What is your market share considering that you rank among the top two logistics companies in the country? Market share can be a dicey thing or analysis to put on the table. If you look at our industry, we are playing in several segments of the market. For example, we have a domestic business which is concerned with taking shipments from here to other parts of Lagos or other parts of Nigeria. We can talk about market share in that area. We can talk about e-commerce deliveries. We can go to logistics where we have warehouses and trucks moving from one place to another and you can compare us with others who also work in that space. So you are going to be talking about market share in that space as well. You come to freight, where heavy cargos are coming from abroad, shipments are moving from here to other parts of the world, there is also a market share in that area. But generally speaking, you find us ranking very highly in terms of market share because we are one of the most popular companies in Nigeria as far as the industry where we play is concerned. Giving a market share number will be subject to a lot of debate. I will say rank us in the top five and you will clearly find us in the top two and that is a very cheering thing in terms of what we mean to the customers, the Nigerian economy and our own industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 