Bola Bamigbola and Daud Olatunji Five persons were killed in separate auto crashes in Osun and Ogun states on Christmas day. In Osun State, three persons lost their lives when a crash occurred on the Toro Road in the Cooperative area of Modakeke. Five others sustained varying degrees of injury as a vehicle lost control and ran over them. According to a trader in the area, Mopelola Razaq, the accident occurred around 8.30pm, when a Nissan Xtera SUV ran over the victims, including roadside traders. She said an irate mob descended on the driver of the vehicle and beat him to a state of unconsciousness. She added that the mob later set ablaze the vehicle before policemen arrived the scene. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Folasade Odoro, confirmed the accident, adding that eight persons, including a baby, were knocked down by the vehicle. She said the identity of the driver of the vehicle, with number plate MUS 741 DR, had yet to be ascertained. Odoro stated, “The yet-to-be identified driver of the vehicle lost control and subsequently knocked down eight persons, including a baby. “In a spontaneous reaction, the irate crowd set the vehicle ablaze before the intervention of the police. “While three of the victims were feared dead on the spot, they and others involved were, however, rushed to the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex for medical attention. Investigation is in progress.” At Ibafo in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State, a Honda Element SUV crushed two pedestrians to death. The driver of the SUV allegedly drove against the traffic in the Ibafo area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The Ogun State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Clement Oladele, stated on Thursday that three other persons were injured in the accident. Oladele said the driver of the SUV, with number plate KSF 946 DB, drove against the traffic and knocked down two pedestrians, who were waiting to board a commercial bus, and killed them on the spot and injured three others. The sector commander attributed the crash to route violation and speeding by the driver of the SUV, leading to loss of control of the vehicle. “The corpses of the victims have been deposited in the Fakoya Hospital, Sagamu, while the survivors are receiving treatment at the Idera Hospital, Sagamu,” he stated. Oladele advised motorists to desist from driving against the traffic and adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations to avoid unnecessary loss of lives and property. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 