Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt The Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has dismissed the claim by the All Progressives Congress that it (PDP) was behind the serial court order stopping the APC congresses in the state. The state chairman of the PDP, Felix Obuah, advised the main opposition party in the state to respect the rule of law by obeying court orders. Obuah, in a statement in Port Harcourt on Thursday, said obedience to court orders remained intrinsic in democracy, stating that any political party averse to such tenet of democracy was not worthy of existence. Recall that the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Lanre Issa-Onilu, had said on Wednesday that those behind the suit stopping his party’s congresses in Rivers were working for the PDP. But the state PDP chairman advised the opposition party in the state to put its house in order and stop “groping for external enemies.” Obuah said in a statement in Port Harcourt by his media aide, Jerry Needam, that the biggest problem of the APC was its “penchant for disrespecting the rule of law and disobeying court orders,” stressing that the earlier the party realised this and turn a new leaf, the better it will be for the APC. “The APC is in crisis because it was built on a faulty foundation and those who formed the APC are incompatible elements. They are nothing but strange bedfellows living in delusion hoping for some magic to make things work in the party. “This explains why they see all their failures and incompetence as the handiwork of imaginary enemies. The day they realise that democracy is anchored on respect for the rule of law and obedience to court orders, they will make a head start and enjoy the support of Nigerians. Anything short of this is living in a fool’s paradise,” Obuah stated. The state PDP chairman advised the APC to leave the PDP alone, stressing that the administration of Governor Nyesom Wike was focused on implementing people-oriented programmes and would not be distracted by those interested in deceiving Rivers people for their selfish interest. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    