Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Members of the Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria in the Idi-iroko border area of Ogun State have begged the Comptroller-General, Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali (retd.), to stop the alleged auction of  24 tankers  seized in  the state. The members alleged that their 24  tankers were wrongly impounded in Idi-Iroko in  the Ipokia Local Government Area of the state  by the Joint Task Force established while  implementing the 20 km radius on the sale of petrol ordered  by the Federal Government  . They said their tankers were impounded for no just cause and that they had been reliably informed that the seized tankers were being considered for auction. The members,  who own  20 filling stations in the area, explained that  the operatives of the NCS  took possession  of their  24 fuel-laden  tankers where they were parked in Idi-Iroko. The dealers in a  petition addressed to the Customs CG, a  copy of which was obtained by our correspondent, alleged that the tankers were being  auctioned secretly without any court order  or public announcement of the said seizure. According to them in the petition written through their lawyer, George Oyeniyi,   the operatives in collaboration with men of Nigeria Army stormed their stations  using the 20 km radius directive by the Federal Government to  perpetrate the act. “Out of 24 trucks, 22 were impounded at their various stations while the other two were forcefully taken on the road  customs men,” they stated. They explained in the petition that many of the petroleum dealers in the border area had taken the products before the announcement of the 20 km directives. They added that many of the tankers were already on the road to deliver the products at their designated stations when customs men allegedly attacked  them and impounded the trucks. The petition read in part, “Sir, in view of the recent information at our disposal to the effect that most of the said 24 tanker trucks impounded and seized from our clients by the said men and officers of NCS tagged border drill operation in collaboration with some soldiers in military uniform have taken to the nearby military barracks at Owode where they were being negotiated for auction sale. “Interesting to note is the fact that the purported auction of our clients’ hard-earned properties was being done secretly without any court order, press conference or public announcement of the said seizure. “We have also been informed that some of our clients’ trucks loaded with petroleum products, now found their way to the nearby bush in the dead of the night where same were being purportedly auctioned to some notorious smugglers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 