Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has rescued a serving member of the National Youth Service Corps, Faith Onyiwara, who was kidnapped around Ilamija in the Epe area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that Onyiwara was on her way to attend the community development service meeting when the kidnappers, led by one Moses Ofeye, abducted her. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Tuesday that the kidnappers demanded N50m ransom from the manager of the ABC Farm, where Onyiwara was serving. He stated that no ransom was paid, adding that a rescue operation coordinated by the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, rescued Onyiwara in a swampy forest in Ilamija Nla in Epe after an exchange of gunfire with the kidnappers. According to the PPRO, Ofeye, who sustained bullet wounds during the gun battle with the police, was arrested, while the victim was rescued, taken to hospital and handed over to the NYSC coordinator in the state. Elkana stated, “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, coordinated the rescue operation of one Faith Onyiwara, a corps member serving with the ABC Farm in Ilamija Nla village. The corps member was rescued around 2.20am today (Tuesday) in a swampy forest around Ilamija Nla in Epe after a gun battle. The kidnappers’ ring leader, Moses Ofeye, 31, from Ondo State, of Ijaw origin, was arrested with gunshot wounds. “The victim was taken to hospital for medical attention due to the shock and trauma she experienced and the long distance she trekked. But she is in a stable condition. The CP has handed her over to the Lagos State Coordinator of the NYSC and her family. Faith Onyiwara was abducted on Friday, November 29, 2019, while on her way to attend the CDS meeting at Ilamija, Epe. “The abductors demanded ransom of N50m from the farm manager but later reduced it to N400,000. The ransom was to be dropped at the Ijebu Ososa area. But no ransom was paid. The Lagos State Coordinator of the NYSC and family of the rescued corps member expressed gratitude to the commissioner of police for rescuing their daughter alive.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 