Olaide Oyelude, Katsina A suspected hoodlum, Yusuf Lawal, 22, has been arraigned before a Katsina Senior Magistrates’ Court for the fatal stabbing of Corporal Musa Isiyaku during a failed bid to evade arrest. The defendant is charged for stabbing Isiyaku of the Malumfashi Police Division to death in an attempt to prevent the deceased from arresting him. Lawal was said to have used a pair of scissors to stab the policeman in the stomach and the ribs, with the victim eventually dying from his injuries. The late Isiyaku, 30, was a member of the surveillance squad of the police division until his death on November 5, 2019, at No. 22 Layin Yanbori Quarter, Malumfashi, while carrying out a lawful order to arrest the suspect. It was learnt that the deceased and his colleagues had received intelligence report about the movement of criminal elements in the area around 10.30pm on the day of the incident. The police team stormed the area, where the suspect and an accomplice, were moving around with intent to steal the property of the residents of the area. Isiyaku was subsequently ordered to go and arrest the suspect and his accomplice, who was simply identified as A. T. According to the police, Lawal, while resisting arrest, brought out a pair of scissors with which he stabbed the corporal, who was rushed to the Malumfashi General Hospital for medical attention. The deceased was was later referred to an orthopaedic hospital for further treatment because of the severity of his injuries. The defendant reportedly confessed to committing the crime during police investigation. He is facing a culpable homicide charge under Section 189 of the Penal Code, Law of Katsina State, 2019. The presiding magistrate, Hajiya Fadile Dikko, adjourned the case till January 30, 2020, for mention. She also ordered that the defendant be remanded in a correctional facility until the next adjourned date. Her decision was based on a prayer by the prosecutor, ASP Sani Ado, for additional time to allow the police conclude investigation into the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  