Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, operatives of Operation Safe Haven, monarchs and other stakeholders met on Monday in Kafanchan, in the Jama’a Local Government Area of Southern Kaduna over the security situation in the area. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, represented the state governor while Maj. Gen. Augustine Agundu in charge of the Operation Safe Haven from the Defence Headquarters,  also attended the meeting, aimed at appraising the security situation in the area. While addressing the gathering, the governor expressed concern over the farmers and herders clashes in the area, noting that killing would not solve the problem in the area. He said, “Conflicts between farmers and herders have long history but why killing each other now? “Criminals are everywhere; let’s treat criminals as criminals. Crime has nothing to do with one’s religion or tribe. “The very moment we decide to cover criminals because of religion and tribe, crimes will persist in our society. No need for bloodshed in our state.” He added, “We will continue to deepen cooperation with security agencies. We are living under the law, if herdsmen/farmers have a problem, they should report to security agencies and the government. “Farmers and herders should not take laws into their hands. They should allow the law to take it cause.” General Agundu asked the residents to fish out the bad eggs in the community for lasting peace in the area. He also called on farmers and herders in possession of illegal fire arms to surrender them to the nearest security post to avoid arrest. Agundu said, “As a farmer, you don’t need to kill another person that destroys farmland because we cannot buy life. “We must stop stealing cows. I also advise the herdsmen to stop using children to rear cows and night rearing. Let us isolate the bad ones who are criminals. “They cut across all the tribes. We must be tolerant of each other and grow to understand.” He added, “My appeal to you traditional rulers is to isolate the bad ones, the enemies are living within us, identify them to foster peace in Southern Kaduna. “If we keep the bad ones among us, peace will delay. “We must go back to old days where we all live in peace with one another. Let’s respect each other.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    