Workers retiring without pensions due to non-payment of salaries and non-remittance of monthly deductions from their remunerations into their Retirement Savings Accounts by their employers have continued to increase under the Contributory Pension Scheme, NIKE POPOOLA reports No fewer than 109,284 workers retired and quit the Contributory Pension Scheme as of the end of June, as they did not meet the requirements for monthly pensions. Majority of the workers concerned were those who did not have up to N550, 000 in their RSAs as of the time of retirement. According to the Pension Reform Act 2014, any worker with less than N550, 000 would be given the total balance in their RSA by the Pension Fund Administrator and allowed to leave the pension scheme. Some of the affected retirees had so far withdrawn N27.09bn, as of the end of June, 2019, it was learnt. It was also found out that some retirees who were offered low monthly stipends as a result of low funds in their RSAs rejected their offers, which they considered to be ridiculously low. A retiree, Mary Moneme, who retired with less than N1.6m balance in her RSA said, “My PFA said if I collected 50 per cent lump sum, it would be paying me about N6,000 per month if I took the programmed withdrawal. The insurance company said it would be paying me about N7,000  with the annuity. “The PFA said if I took 25 per cent lump sum, it would be paying me about N9, 000 while the insurance company said it would pay about N10, 000. “What will I be using that kind of monthly stipend to do? I have left my PFA and have not returned there because that monthly stipend is not a living wage.” According to industry stakeholders, irregular payment of salaries by employers at the state and private sectors made the workers to have no pension savings because the savings could only be deducted from a paid salary. Some employers who had also continued to deduct their workers monthly salaries but refused to remit such to  the RSAs with the respective PFAs had also denied the workers the ability to earn pensions. According to the National Pension Commission, some foreign nationals returning to their countries had also withdrawn their savings before leaving. PenCom stated in a  report, “The commission granted approval for the payment of the entire RSA balances of the categories of retirees whose RSA balances were N550,000 or below and considered insufficient to procure a programmed withdrawal or annuity of a reasonable amount over an expected lifespan.” It added that approval was also granted for payment of the RSA balances to foreign nationals who decided to return to their home countries after making contributions under the CPS. The commission stated, “Consequently, 109,284 retirees received en-bloc payments totalling N27.09bn from inception to the end of the second quarter of 2019.” The President, United Labour Congress, Joseph Ajaero, observed that apart from employers that were not remitting workers’ pensions, many firms were taking casual workers without giving them any pension savings. He said contract and casual appointment and outsourcing were all precarious jobs that under normal employment schedule were not supposed to be there. In most cases, he said, those jobs did not have any form of protection and it was more prevalent in sectors without strong unions that would challenge the system. He noted that many casual workers had no retirement package as their employers did not key them into the CPS. PenCom said it had continued to go after employers that were not remitting workers’ pensions in their RSAs. The acting Director-General, PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, said the commission maintained the services of recovery agents for the retrieval of outstanding pension contributions and penalties from defaulting employers. She said, “The RAs were mandated to review the pension records of the employers assigned by the commission with a view to recovering outstanding pension contributions with penalties.” According to the commission, total recoveries made from inception to date amounted to N16.01bn, comprising principal contributions of N8.22bn and penalties of N7.79bn. These amounts had since been credited to the respective RSAs of the employees, PenCom disclosed. However, to address the issue of workers retiring with low RSA balances and unable to earn monthly pensions, PenCom and the PFAs earlier proposed a minimum stipend of N14, 400 in the draft guidelines on the commencement of the minimum pension for retirees under the CPS. The PRA 2014 provided that PenCom should establish and maintain a fund to be known as the Pension Protection Fund in respect of the guaranteed minimum pension. According to the Act, funding of the minimum guaranteed pension would be partly obtained from an annual subvention of one per cent of the total monthly wage bill payable to employees in the public service of the federation and returns from pension fund investments. It would also be funded from the annual pension protection levy paid by PenCom and all licensed pension operators at a rate to be determined by the commission from time to time. The draft guidelines on minimum pension stipulated that only workers who had contributed for a minimum of 15 years into their RSAs would enjoy the minimum pension. It added that the informal sector and casual workers must have contributed to their RSAs for 120 months and 135 months respectively before they could enjoy this benefit. The initiative, according to the operators, will bring an end to the situation where retirees are paid abysmally low pensions or nothing when the balances in their RSAs are very small. Five years after the PRA 2014 came into the existence, the minimum pension is yet to begin. The spokesperson for PenCom, Mr Peter Aghahowa, said that the industry was working on how to implement the minimum pension pay to retired workers. He said that the insurance operators, who were administering the annuity, had also been in talks with the commission on whether or not the annuitants would be brought into the net when the minimum pension commenced. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 