Ahead of the 2023 election, the quest for a president from the South-East seems to be drawing concerns of stakeholders across the country, writes MUDIAGA AFFE The 2023 election is clearly more than three years away, but the campaign for a president of South-East extraction is already generating controversy. Over the years, the political class has maintained an unwritten culture of rotating power between the North and the South. Such a situation had always arisen from the fallout of power play within the ruling party and major opposition(s) with the active support of the sitting President. But in his views, a former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, said that the presidency of Nigeria is dependent on the mood of the nation. Ekweremadu, in an interview on Channels Television’s Roadmap 2019, said no one part of Nigeria can decide to take the presidency and succeed in grabbing it. In his brief analysis of the nation’s political history since the advent of the Fourth Republic, Ekweremadu said in 1999 when former President Olusegun Obasanjo was elected, the mood of the nation was for a southern president from the western part of Nigeria. He also explained the “mood” analogy that followed after Obasanjo left office in 2007 till the 2015 election when ex-President Goodluck Jonathan lost to incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. After establishing the role of ‘moods’ in the Nigerian polity, Ekweremadu projected that the mood of the nation would be in favour of an Igbo extraction in 2023. However, that ‘mood’ has become a subject of intense debates across the country even when the 2023 election is still clearly three years away. The first and only Nigerian president from the eastern region, late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, who was in the saddle between 1963 and 1966, was mainly of ceremonial status. After that brief stint, which was followed by successive military dictatorships, the region had yet to taste the number one seat afterward. Even though the ‘mood’ as encapsulated by Ekweremadu had over the years tilted in favour of a region, there is the belief that political parties have the ultimate ‘mood’ to sway Nigerians into the direction that they deem fit. Yet in another interview, the National Chairman of the United Progressives Party, Chief Chekwa Okorie, said there is almost a national consensus that it is the turn of the South-East to produce the next President, adding “interestingly, people who are not of Igbo political leadership are the ones who appear to be championing the cause for our people. So, we cannot afford not to show seriousness in the way we engage others and the way we redefine our political strategy to be more pragmatic and proactive in actualising it. “The truth remains that the likes of Edwin Clark, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Gen Ishola Williams (retd.) and Senator Emmanuel Buwacha from Taraba State, who are non-Igbo people have said it is our turn. And if an Igbo man would wake up and say, no it is not our time; I begin to wonder where the person is coming from.” Also, the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo, in another interview warned that anybody plotting to deny the Igbo the slot would be throwing the country into chaos. Nwodo asked all political parties in the country to look in the direction of the South-East while shopping for presidential candidates in the next general election. But a former President of the Senate, Adolphus Wabara, said it would take a miracle for the country to produce a President of Igbo extraction, adding that the Igbo has been systematically confined to certain political limits in the country. Thinking in the line of Wabara, a former National Auditor of the PDP, Chief Ray Nnaji, said the South-East would not be ripe for the Presidency come 2023, adding that no structure in the region could deliver such a candidate. Buttressing the above assertions in an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH, a political scientist and former Special Adviser to two ex-Chief of General Staffs, Gen. Oladipo Diya (retd.) and the late Vice-Admiral Mike Akhigbe, Prof Femi Otubanjo, said the power play at the centre might not swing in favour of an Igbo president in 2023. Otubanjo, who noted that ideally, the South-East should produce the president in 2023, stressed that the mood of the incumbent President Buhari does not indicate that he would be willing to support an Igbo candidacy under the platform of the APC. According to Otubanjo, the president’s disposition seems tilted towards the direction of the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the 2023 election, adding, however, that anything could happen between now and 2023 He said, “The Igbo people are ripe to produce the president. They have several prominent people who are not worse than those who have become President of Nigeria in terms of education and experience. But if you are talking about the culture of rotation I will like to think that it is the turn of the South-East. However, that is strictly at the theoretical level. “I am not sure if the All Progressives Congress have that provision of rotational presidency in their constitution and from what is playing out, the presidential succession in the APC will look like a result of the power play because we are beginning to see a situation that will appear that President Buhari will transfer power to the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “I cannot see that Tinubu will put his head out already for 2023 if he has not got the nod from President Buhari. Whatever the manipulation that people are doing that a lot of people do not want him; it is natural with a political party. Between now and 2023 a lot can happen to upset any planning but from what I can see there are lots of political power as distinct from the theoretical political culture. “The South-West has had it, the northerners have had it, now we ought to think of the Igbo that is the third leg of the tripod. Unfortunately too, the Igbo people are not well represented in the APC, so, they are not likely to get to the forefront of the political manipulation that will see them through. “In terms of rotation too, the PDP must also think of the viability of its candidate. If they (PDP) bring out an Igbo president in 2023, they must consider the overall number of the Igbo people because the number is important here. The PDP does not have the political power to manipulate a presidential candidate to make just any of their candidates to win an election. But the PDP may want to return to power and likely to push for a northern candidate for them to compete with the APC. “The likelihood is that if the APC brings up a southerner, the PDP will have the chance to bring up a northerner. They (PDP) may not consider an Igbo candidate because it will be to their disadvantage because the Igbo cannot have the alliance in the North which Tinubu has.’’ But the President of Ijaw Youth Council, Mr Eric Omare, differed in his position. He said it would be wrong to deny the South-East the presidency in 2023. Omare, however, said to make the projection work, the South-East must be united by producing credible candidates for the election. “Based on the north, south rotation, it should come to the south in 2023. When it comes to the south, it should be the turn of the South-East to produce the candidate based on fairness and equity and to also promote a sense of belonging. “It is against good conscience for anybody from the South-West and the South-South to attempt to contest the presidency in 2023. Though the South-South did not complete its eight-year tenure but considering the support that the South-East gave to us when ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was there is for everybody, especially those of us from southern Nigerian to support a South-East president and there are a lot of competent people from that area who can provide good leadership for the country. “However, the South-East should come out to speak with one voice. They have always opposed their kinsmen and I think that for them to have the presidency in 2023 they must be united. They must speak in one voice by providing a suitable candidate and standing by the person all through the election period,” he said. Also, a former governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, said any attempt to deny the Igbo people the presidency in 2023 would amount to injustice. “It is imperative for it to go to the South-East for national unity peace and progress and because we want to have national unity and peace we have to give every major section of the country a sense of belonging. At the moment, there are four basic sections- North, South-West, South-East, and South-South. “The North has had the privilege of producing the president so many times, both military and civilian. The South-West has had it once, the South-South and the only section that has not had it in the South-East. Therefore, for peace, unity, and progress, we should find a suitable person from the South-East, not just any person, to occupy that position. “We chose just any person from the North and the South-South but that ended in trouble. Now that we are saying that somebody should come from the South-East, we should not say just anybody from the region otherwise we would be making the same mistake. We should stand out and chose the equivalent of the Great Zik of Africa (Nnamdi Azikiwe). “There must be people who are in his equivalent in the region. Let them stand out and make themselves available. For the sake of national unity let all the other regions allow someone from South-East to contest, someone who will not mess up. He should be able to come out with a truly national programme,” he said. In the quest for the like of Azikiwe (Zik of Africa), the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, said a new Nnamdi Azikiwe would emerge ahead of the 2023 election. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide assures Nigerians that a new Nnamdi Azikiwe is currently amongst us. The Igbo youths are declaring without any fear of contradiction that any of the trio- Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), who are the best performing governors in the South-East can very well fit into the shoes of the great Zik of Africa to contest for the 2023 presidential election,” he said. To achieve the aspiration, Isiguzoro said the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council was already collaborating with the Middle-belt Youth Council for the realisation of an Igbo president in the 2023 election. He said critical stakeholders across the country would be engaged to ensure that the gentleman’s rotational agreement between the south and the north was obeyed. Isiguzoro also urged the presidential candidate of the PDP in the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, and the National Leader of the APC, Tinubu not to contest the 2023 election to give the South-East the chance of producing the next president. But to realise such an ambition may take more the mere rhetoric talks. Leaders of major political parties may also need to align with the need to have a President of Igbo extraction. Above all, the elite, political leaders and opinion moulders from the region must also come out from their cocoon and play what political analysts called ‘‘national politics’’, hence the desire will remain a pipedream. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 