Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt THE rift between Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson, took a fresh turn on Tuesday when the former rejected the Peoples Democratic Party’s decision to intervene in the matter. Wike and Dickson are on the warpath over the Soku oil wells returned to Rivers State by  the  Federal High Court in Abuja. Wike, who spoke in an interview in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, said  there was no need  for the PDP leadership to intervene in the matter  since the Federal High Court had already determined the issue in question. He said, “I don’t know why they are interceding. They have no power to resolve the issue of oil wells. Secondly, the matter has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. “Anybody who is not satisfied should go on appeal.  Are they interceding on behalf of someone who betrayed the party? They know that Governor Seriake Dickson betrayed and sold out the party. They know that during the 2019 elections in Rivers State, Dickson worked with my opponent. “Throughout that period, the PDP National Chairman (Uche Secondus) himself knows that people were calling from all over the country to know the situation. “Dickson never called one day. This was because of his alignment with the opposition. I can show proof that Dickson has already made up his mind to go over to the APC. I am not going to sit down with anybody to discuss anything as it relates to Governor Dickson. I have no business with Governor Dickson. He said, “In fact, Governor Dickson ought to have resigned from the party by now, so that the leaders of the PDP in Bayelsa would rebuild the party. The national leadership of the party should know that the only option left for the PDP to be strong in Bayelsa is for Dickson to leave the party.” Wike  said  the party’s intervention was no longer profitable following  the alleged damage done by Dickson. He added, “Where was the party when Dickson sold out? Why couldn’t they come out to speak out? Governor Dickson, you have killed our party in that state. What is anyone wading in for? I am not going to be party to that and nobody will stop me.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com