Gbenga Odogun The Peoples Democratic Party women leader, Salome Abuh, who was burnt alive after the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, has been laid to rest in her hometown, Aji-Obala, Ofu Local Government Area of the state. She was laid to rest amidst tears and eulogy from notable PDP figures at the United Evangelical Church, Idah on Saturday. Reading from Revelation 14:13, the officiating minister, Rev John Adino, lamented that some politicians had lost focus in providing the basic social amenities to better the lives of the people but rather acquiring wealth that belonged to the people. The clergyman urged politicians to bear in mind that one day, they would account for their deeds before God, according to a statement on Saturday. In his tribute, the deceased’s husband, Mr Simeon Abuh, said his wife paid the supreme price for Igala land through politics, describing her as a martyr whose political sagacity would remain fresh in the minds of her political associates. He called on the Federal Government to ensure that the perpetrators of the heinous act are arrested and brought to book. In his remarks, the PDP governorship candidate in the election, Mr Musa Wada, said Mrs Abuh died for Kogi State and the Igala nation, saying they had set out to emancipate the people of the state from the hands of oppressors. He said, “I am not going to relent a bit. I will pursue this gruesome and senseless killing of Mrs Abuh. Whenever I think of the circumstances of her death, I wonder who would ever wish that for their enemy. “The unfortunate thing is that the killing was perpetrated by the children of Igala nation who joined hands with the oppressors to kill members of the opposition. “Regardless of their intimidation and oppression, we will reclaim our stolen mandate because they are just keeping it temporarily.” Also speaking, the state PDP women leader, Mrs Margaret Omoniyi, described the late Abuh as a lively person who could turn negative situations into positive ones because of her commitment and versatility in politics. The only son to the deceased, David, described their mother as a lover of people who invested in assisting the needy in society. He called on the Federal Government to ensure that justice was done with respect to their mother’s killing. Meanwhile, an attempt by an All Progressives Congress member of the House of Representatives, Mr David Zachary, to speak at the event nearly caused a commotion as the youth vehemently resisted him from speaking. They warned that any attempt by him to speak could lead to violence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 