Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The All Progressives Congress in Oyo State has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly to prevail on Governor Oluseyi Makinde to stop its planned sack of local government chairmen in the state. Oyo APC’s call followed Makinde’s announcement, last week, that he would appoint his party members as caretaker chairmen and sole administrators of the 33 local government councils and 35 local council development areas in the state. In a statement issued in Ibadan, made available to journalists on Monday by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Ayobami Adejumo, the Oyo APC described the alleged plan by Makinde to foist his loyalists and the PDP members on the people at the local government level “as not only an affront to the judiciary but also a shameful decision aimed at positioning some lackeys for a possible hatchet job in view of his “imminent sack” from office. The statement read, “In the history of our dear country, there has never been anywhere in all the 36 states and the FCT where the executive offices in all the local government councils were locked for more than six months simply because a governor would order the sack of elected officials. “But this happened in our own Oyo State when the PDP governor began to manifest flagrant disregard to the oath of office he swore to right from the day of his inauguration. Governor Makinde ordered a prospective appointee to announce the withdrawal of the mandate of hundreds of validly elected council officials and this was without any reasonable justification. “Without mincing words, the whole world is aware of a subsisting judgment of the Supreme Court, which frowns on the actions being taken by Makinde as it declared as illegal, null and void, any dissolution of elected local government councils by any state governor and/or state House of Assembly.” It added, “The governor is fully aware of this and the specific judgment of the Oyo State High Court, which called attention to the apex court’s incontrovertible verdict and thus restrained the Oyo State governor and House of Assembly from dissolving local governments. “Governor Makinde did not only deliberately flout these subsisting court orders/judgments, he also took other dangerous steps by illegally dissolving OYSIEC, a constitutional body with a specified tenure provided by our Constitution. “Meanwhile, Governor Makinde made public his incompetence and poor understanding of the concept of constitutional democracy when he covertly sought to bribe the entire members of the State Independent Electoral Commission through a bait of upfront payment of their salaries for the whole of their five-year tenure, which had not run to two years as of the time he claimed to have dissolved the statutory commission. This action alone raises both moral and legal questions as to why the reckless use of tax payers’ money for illegal, selfish and partisan ends.” The party said it had become imperative to draw the attention of the Presidency to “the executive rascality and political heists being witnessed in Oyo State in the hands of some desperate political players who would stop at nothing to subject the nation’s judiciary to ridicule and also desecrate the institution of democracy and the rule of law.” It asked the President to use the federal might on Makinde and caution him before the situation got out of hand. The party also called on the National Assembly to intervene, saying, “Both the leadership of the Senate and the House of Representatives in Abuja have a role to play in this matter if it is just only to safeguard the sanctity of the judiciary and forestall possible breakdown of law and order in Oyo State which is an integral part of the country. A man who left his duty post in Oyo in company of some violent elements to disturb the peaceful conduct of elections in far away Kogi State cannot be ignored when it comes to attempts to set the whole nation on fire for selfish reasons.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com