Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The face-off between the majority investors in Abuja Electricity Distribution Company continued on Thursday as CEC Africa Investments Limited blamed its partner, Xerxes Global Investment Limited, for breaching the $41m funding agreement for acquiring the Disco in 2013. CEC Africa and Xerxes Global form the majority investor in the Disco, holding 60 per cent shares of the power firm, while the Federal Government owns 40 per cent AEDC shares. The Chairman, Xerxes Global, Ambassador Shehu Malami, had told our correspondent that the investors’ crisis at the AEDC was being fuelled by greed, adding that the goodwill he brought to the company was not valued by CEC Africa. Malami had stated that the goodwill he brought to the power firm ought to be factored as part of Xerxes’ contribution, which also warranted the sale of the AEDC to KANN Utility Company Limited, a consortium that includes CEC Africa and Xerxes. Reacting to this on Thursday, the Managing Director, CEC Africa, Emmanuel Katepa, stated that goodwill could not have bought the Disco. He argued that during the privatisation, there were financial obligations which bidders were expected to meet. This, he said, prompted CEC Africa and Xerxes to agree on the financial arrangements, starting with the initial payment of $41m to the Bureau of Public Enterprises. Katepa said Xerxes failed to pay its contribution leaving all the payments to be done by CEC Africa. He said, “Till date, Xerxes has not shown any capacity to repay its part of that obligation to CEC Africa, six years after the privatisation. “Yet it wants to claim major ownership of the AEDC but has failed to fulfil any financial obligation and has left the business risk on CEC Africa.” Katepa added, “Ambassador Shehu Malami failed to address the central issue which remains that he and his organisation are claiming shares for which they have failed to pay and show no capacity to pay. “In recognition of its failure to pay its share of the acquisition cost in 2013, Xerxes even pledged to CEC Africa, as security, half of its equity share in KANN.” He challenged Malami and Xerxes to tell the public if it brought any fund in the acquisition of the AEDC. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     