…Senate approves Conference Committee report on Finance Bill Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has sent the 2020 statutory budget of the Federal Capital Territory Administration to the National Assembly for consideration and approval. Buhari, in the letter dated December 10, 2019 and addressed to the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, explained that his request to the Senate was in compliance with Sections 121 and 299 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). The letter read, “Pursuant to Sections 121 and 299 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), I forward herewith, the 2020 statutory budget proposal of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, for the kind consideration and passage by the Senate. “While hoping that this submission will receive the usual expeditious consideration of the Senate, please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Meanwhile, the upper chamber also on Wednesday referred the retired general’s request for the confirmation of the Chairman and Members of the Federal Inland Revenue Service to the Senate Committee on Finance. Lawan asked the Committee to start work on the screening and confirmation of the newly appointed Chairman of the FIRS, Mr. Muhammad Nami. Lawan, who stated this at the plenary, also asked the finance panel to carry out the confirmation and that of 13 other members of the FIRS  board and submit its report  Wednesday. The Senate President also referred the screening and confirmation of Mr. Edward Adamu, as the new Chairman of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria to the Committee of Banking,  Insurance and other Financial Institutions. Nami will replace Mr. Tunde Fowler in the FIRS while Adamu will replace Muiz Banire at AMCON Lawan asked the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Olamilekan Adeola, to submit his report on December 18 before the National Assembly adjourns on Thursday for the Christmas break. The upper chamber also, on Wednesday, approved the report of the Conference Committee of the Senate and House of Representatives on the Finance bill passed by the National Assembly recently.