Grace Agada Everyone who wants to start a business believes that their business idea is a great idea. If this were true, about 70 per cent of businesses that die within the first 10 years will all still be alive. But not all business ideas are great ideas. Great business ideas are ideas that make money. Bad business ideas are ideas that lose money. When your idea is a service business idea, there are certain things you need to do to ensure that it works. One of the strategies you can employ is to test and confirm that there is a desire for your services before you enter the market. Testing your idea this way ensures that you enter the market without losing money. It also gives you the opportunity to see upfront a business that has the capacity to make you rich. A business with this kind of capacity to make you rich is good business. According to the Forbes 400 Rich list, the richest people in the world are business owners. These business owners own businesses that thrive on a profitable business idea. When your service business rides on the back of a profitable idea, chances are high that you too will become wealthy. But discovering this kind of idea is not an automatic process. It requires certain research to find, test and verify that your idea will work. Many people make the mistake of jumping into the business world without verifying their ideas. These people assume that their ideas will work. They believe people will buy until reality hits them. When they finally wake up to reality, they have lost time, money and valuable resources. You can prevent this from happening to you now. By testing your service business ideas before you enter the market you save yourself years of regret. Testing your ideas helps you see from day one ideas to pursue and those that are just a labor of love. So if you have a service business idea, how can you test and validate it and what do you need to do to be sure it works? To validate your service business idea you need to do three things First, you need to ensure that your service business idea is targeted at a starving crowd. A starving crowd is any group of people with a burning desire or pain. There are those people that are underserved in a market or have a burning desire no one is attending to. Every industry has them, but it takes deep research to find them. They include all the people complaining about something in an industry or asking for a thing that is not yet available. To find these kinds of people there are certain questions you must answer. These questions include, who are the people complaining in my industry? What are they complaining about? What if available will make their lives better and so on? Some of the world’s best ideas come from solutions that answer these questions. When you discover this kind of ideas it sets you apart. You become the go-to person that ends up with cash. Doing what everybody else is doing is a sure way to fail in business. You will be lost in the dust of competition and will remain irrelevant for a long time. The best way to stand out in business is to find the starving crowd and serve them. The second thing you need to do is to be sure you have the capacity to solve the problem of the starving crowd or fulfill the desires. The starving crowd will only pay you when you solve their problem. Solving the starving crowd problem mean you need to have certain knowledge, skills or experiences that can help them. Without this capacity, you are full of self-doubt. Self-doubt drives away confidence. When confidence is lacking customers can sense it. When customers sense a lack of confidence they take their money away. Without confidence, it is hard to create wealth in the business world. Successful business owners are confident people. The third thing you need to do is to make sure the starving crowd you choose has the willingness and ability to pay you when you solve their problem. Not all problems that customers complain about are profitable problems. Profitable problems are problems customers are willing to pay you for. When customers pay to solve a problem, they pay because they see the problem as urgent and important. Your goal is to find ideas that are urgent and important in the eyes of the customer or lift your business idea to the position of importance. The only way to do this is to test your business ideas upfront. Testing your ideas tells you if your idea can attract the money of the customer. It shows you the type of customers that can pay you and those who cannot. Knowing these customers upfront will help you position your message and solution to the right target market. Only then can you make money in business. But how exactly can you test? Where can you find the starving crowd in your market? What steps do you need to take when you find them to verify their ability to pay? These and more I have put together in a special report called the “Idea Validation Blueprint”. To qualify for a copy send an email to info@createsolidwealth.com and we will take you through the steps of qualification. The business world is a tough world. Going into business without the security of a valid business idea increases your risk of failure. Testing your business idea before you enter the market will save you years of regret. Only businesses driven by a profitable idea will make you rich Grace Agada is a Generation Wealth Advisor, Money Growth Expert, and author of the popular Solid Wealth Book. She is a consultant and coach to an exclusive list of working-class professionals, top executives, and entrepreneurial clients running businesses from $1m to $1bn in size. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  