Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State House of Assembly on Monday suspended councillors of the Osogbo South Local Council Development Area pending the outcome of the investigations into the crisis ravaging the council. The lawmakers had last week impeached the Chairman of the council, Akeem Olaoye, over some alleged constitutional breaches. During plenary which was presided over by the Speaker, Timothy Owoeye, the House said that after deliberations on the purported impeachment of Olaoye and other related matters, it resolved that for peace to reign, all lawmakers in the council should vacate their offices. Owoeye also directed the council manager to take over the affairs of the LCDA. He called on security agencies to take note of the order of the state to safeguard public peace in the affected LCDA. Owoeye said, “For the purpose of good governance, this House must take a stand to nip in the bud, any other council that may want to tinker with the peace of the people. “It is the resolution of the Assembly that the parliamentarians should vacate the council for the stipulated seven days for the relevant committees of the House to investigate and advise the House accordingly,” the Speaker noted at plenary. Also, as part of its resolutions, the House resolved that the notifications sent to the Assembly by the Osogbo South LCDA and the Olorunda Local Government Area, be forwarded to the House Committee on Local Government and Public Petitions to work on and come out with findings. Meanwhile, armed policemen stationed at the entrance of the Osogbo South LCDA Secretariat in Oja Oba, Osogbo, on Monday restricted movement into the premises as the crisis between the chairman and the parliamentarians continued. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com