German development finance institution, Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft, has announced the opening of  a representative office in Lagos, Nigeria’s economic hub, to pool DEG’s activities in the West African region. DEG  offers customised advice and tailored financing solutions particularly to medium-sized enterprises. A statement from the institution quoted the German Consul General, Dr Stefan Traumann, as saying, “We are very pleased that DEG has chosen Lagos as location for its new representative office. “The new office will help promote economic relations between Germany, Nigeria and West Africa. We very much look forward to the cooperation, especially with regard to German companies coming here to do business.” DEG Regional Director, Mr Bernhard Tilemann noted that DEG recognized the strategic importance of Nigeria as well as West Africa and outlined plans to actively increase its portfolio throughout the West African region by delivering more sustainable impact-giving transactions. He said, “DEG’s portfolio in West Africa amounts to about 650m euro and for instance, DEG recently committed its first financing for a local bank in Côte d’Ivoire, NSIA Banque Côte d’Ivoire. “Another company DEG has financed is the biscuit manufacturer Beloxxi, a family company founded in 1994.” According to the statement, DEG currently has a portfolio of about 140m euro  in Nigeria and together with its long-standing customer,  Access Bank, DEG also runs the  German Desk – Financial Support and Solutions  in Lagos. The desk serves as a central point of contact for German Small and Medium Enterprises and their local partners. “Since 2017 it has been offering one-stop banking services and financing opportunities in cooperation with the local German Chamber of Commerce Abroad,” the statement read in part. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 