Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Ade Ajayi, said on Tuesday that his party, based on its popularity and the achievements of Governor Kayode Fayemi, would have a clean sweep of the local government elections billed for Saturday. Ajayi, who boasted that his party would win the 16 chairmanship seats and the 177 councillorship positions available in the election, said the APC, with the result of the election, would completely rout the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. The APC spokesperson, who spoke at a press conference to reiterate the party’s readiness for the council polls, called on the State Independent Electoral Commission to be transparent in the polls, saying, “We want the body to abide by the rules guiding it and the conduct of election. “We are reiterating that we will not tolerate any act of illegality from the SIEC. No candidate should be registered after the registration has closed. “We are not taking any chances in the elections as we have been campaigning vigorously at the grassroots. We have been moving across the 16 local government areas and the 177 wards in the state and the presence of our party is being well felt. “We want to show the world that we are the only party on ground in Ekiti State. We will rout out the PDP on December 7. The APC will clear all the seats in the 16 local government areas and the 177 wards in the state. “I can assure you that the APC will allow a level playing field during the polls. We appeal to SIEC not to favour us. Let the electorate favour us. We are confident that the good works of Governor Fayemi will make Ekiti vote for us. This is why we are enjoining other parties to take part in the polls so that we can prove to the world that the APC is the only party here.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 