Nike Popoola The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Cornerstone Insurance,Ganiyu Musa, says the company has enhanced capacity for the capital base required by the National Insurance Commission for the companies to recapitalise. During a press briefing in Lagos, he said the company was now in a comfortable financial situation to scale through the exercise. He said the recent disposal of the company’s property along Lekki axis further increased the liquidity of the insurance company to meet and surpass expectations. The group managing director said, the company would have kept the property for the long run, but that real estate investment was not admissible in the ongoing recapitalisation exercise. He said, “We wanted to hold the building for the long term, but under the ongoing recapitalisation, real estate investment is not admissible. So, we took the decision of selling the property and we made handsome profit from it. We now have significant amount of liquidity. “This has put us in a stronger financial position to scale through the exercise, while making our balance sheet stronger and healthy.” The group managing director said the company came out from its loss position of N1.7bn in 2017 to N1.8bn profit in 2018, even as the 2019 profit outlook was showing sign of higher profit from that of the previous year, judging from its 2019 third quarter report. The company, he said, was fulfilling its civic obligation of paying genuine claims as and when due, investing in information technology to give customers the best and seamless services, while working towards ensuring that “shareholders gets good returns on their investments.” Musa said consolidation made better economic sense in recapitalisation, and that it nurtured expertise, improved technical capacity, aside the financial strengthening it brought to the adopting company. According to him, the fund pooled in the recapitalisation would enable operators undertake good underwriting; make good investment; deploy robust technology and develop human capital. He said that with better capital, the companies would be able to write more risks. Musa also said that the developments in the economy were affecting the insurance sector because the sector was part of the country. He said there was evidence of growth in the industry, even though it was not a fast growth, there were prospects for the sector to do better. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com