Olufemi Atoyebi The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has said it will invite the agency involved in the execution of a N109m water project in the Sheleng Council Area of Adamawa State. During the inspection of the project by the commission’s constituency project tracking team, led by Hajiya Hannatu Mohammed, the commission said it observed that water supply to community stopped after three months. One of the Commission’s tracking team coordinators, Jimoh Sulahiman, told our correspondent the boreholes sited in the Gimdegamji area of the council was a constituency project sponsored by Sen Ahmed Barata in 2015. He noted that it had two boreholes, giant overhead and ground tanks and powered by solar energy. He said, “From the site where the boreholes were sunk, several underground pipes were laid to convey water to the main Sheleng town, which is a distance of three kilometres. Two overhead tanks and a giant ground tank serve as reservoir from where water is to be pumped to the town. We observed that the solar panel had fallen apart while water gushed out of the bore holes uncontrollably. “The Secretary to the Sheleng Council Area, Mohammed Musa, told us that many of the underground pipes were excavated during the surface grading of the road leading to the council by the Adamawa State Government. He said the project had equally been abandoned. He said that some of the solar panels were vandalised based on an interrogation with the guard assigned to secure the facility.” READ ALSO: ICPC arraigns Ortom’s aide, ex-commissioner for N4.7bn fraud In an interview with our correspondent, Mohammed, advised that maintenance should be considered while planning constituency projects Asked who the commission should hold responsible for the project, she said, “The commission prefers that the job be done by whoever is involved than prosecution. But if we find infractions, we will take you to court. We are after what benefits the communities. “In the case of this water project in Sheleng, the project is not serving the purpose it was meant for. We will have to check the documents and see which ministry and agency that project is put under.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 