Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri and Leke Baiyewu, Abuja More members of the House of Representatives have expressed their opposition to the plan to renovate the National Assembly Complex Abuja with N37bn in 2020, just as more Nigerians condemned the proposal on Monday. Critics of the expensive renovation are mounting pressure on the legislators by besieging their respective social media platforms to query their support for the project. The N37bn budgeted for the renovation, which had been included in the budget of the Federal Capital Development Authority, had generated criticisms and public outcry. The complex was constructed at a cost of N10.7bn ahead of the return to democracy in 1999. The Olusegun Obasanjo-led administration later expanded the complex to create more offices for lawmakers. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, had last Monday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was aware of the planned renovation next year. He explained that the complex, built about 20 years ago, was in dilapidated condition. The lawmaker representing Ede North/Ede South/Egbedore/Ejigbo Federal Constituency of Osun State in the House, Mr Bamidele Salam, had on his Facebook page on Sunday argued that the huge amount of money could have been used to empower small and medium-scale enterprises. The Peoples Democratic Party member had further argued that the money could also have been spent on health, education and infrastructure. Shortly after Salam, another PDP lawmaker representing Bekwarra/Obanliku/Obudu Federal Constituency of Cross River State, Mr Ochilegor Idagbo, also reacted via his Twitter handle, @HonLegor. He said, “As a member of @nassnigeria, I don’t believe that the complex needs any renovation that would cost the country N37bn. We need more upgraded classrooms and hospitals to cater for the Nigerian people.” A follower of Idagbo’s Twitter handle, Iyalode Ijeshamere (@madamedemadame) replied the lawmaker, “You have another colleague with the same thought. “Having both of you objecting to the renovation is actually encouraging. That money can be put into something else. “That money can be used to equip our hospitals please.” Responding, Legbo indicated that more lawmakers were opposed to the plan. “It is my belief that my fellow Rep members, @akinalabi and @IfeanyimomahMHR, are of the same school of thought and we will together ensure that the needful is done when the matter is tabled on the floor of the @NGRHouse.” A check on @IfeanyimomahMHR, the Twitter handle of the lawmaker representing Ihiala Federal Constituency of Anambra State, Mr Ifeanyi Momah, showed that the lawmaker had yet to state his position on the matter via social media. [READ ALSO] N37bn renovation: Sue FCDA not NASS, Senate replies SERAP Another Idagbo follower, Jideako (@eyebuggy), however, said, “Your efforts are well appreciated. “Let your colleagues realise that this country needs leaders who will move this country forward with ideas and laws that will improve the living conditions of Nigerians. “The N37bn renovation is a rape of the Nigerian citizens.” Idagbo, in his response to a series of criticisms by the Twitter followers, said, “It will be handled. I can assure you that not all members of the @nassnigeria believe that the complex needs that amount for renovation.” In another tweet, the lawmaker said, “We will do our best to help push and project the right things for the Nigerian people.” The lawmaker representing Egbeda/Ona Ara Federal Constituency of Oyo State, Mr Akin Alabi, via his Twitter handle, @akinalabi, also expressed his disagreement with the renovation plan. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com