Tunde Ajaja The Joint Revolutionary Council on Saturday dissociated itself from the recent statement by the Movement for the Emancipation of Niger Delta which reportedly supported the indictment of the Chairman of Air Peace, Chief Allen Onyema, by United States government last month. A statement by the council and signed by the Chairman, Mr Muhammed Gbafade, said allegations made in the statement were “baseless and unfounded.” It read in part, “Recent happenings within and outside the country indicate that such characters who played a key role in destabilising government efforts are at it again. One wonders how MEND under the fictitious hierarchy of a non existing Jomo Gbomo falsely parading himself and making comments on the indictment of a US justice department and issuing a lacklustre press release. “The alleged padded amnesty list does not hold ground as it is on record how many militants protested non-inclusion after near conclusion of the final list. So where did they get the information of padded list? It is on record that the size of the various militant camps was overwhelming with some in excess of between 2000 and 5000. The Federal Government in its wisdom made sure all were captured to forestall any further protests.” The statement added, “Whatever political differences that existed between ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and the faceless Jomo Gbomo with his sponsors is inconsequential and cannot discredit the noble efforts of President Mohammadu Buhari at sustaining the peace in the region and the entire country.” READ ALSO: No apology for guiding children towards their career choices – Olamijulo, Accord Engineering MD “The 30,000 Amnesty figure was absolutely correct and holistic. Though, there were still pockets of protests here and there, which give credence to the high number of militants. “In conclusion, if your strategy is bombing Nigerians and targeting infrastructure, then you’re not a freedom fighter. MEND is a genuine freedom seeking organisation with reputable Niger Delta citizens who love their country,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 