Deji Lambo An accident involving a commercial bus, with number plate LSR 642 XB, around the Danco filling station at the Sagamu end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway has caused the death of five yet-to-be-identified persons, while nine other passengers sustained varying degrees of injury. PUNCH Metro gathered that the white Toyota Hiace bus was conveying 14 passengers to various destinations when the tragedy struck around 9.10pm on Saturday. According to the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State, Clement Oladele, the lone crash involving 10 males and four females was suspected to have been caused by speed limit violation. Oladele said the injured victims were taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital in Sagamu for treatment, while the corpses of the deceased were deposited in the hospital’s mortuary. He advised drivers to maintain a speed limit of 50 kilometres per hour in construction areas and urged passengers to caution drivers whenever they were driving recklessly to prevent further accidents. Oladele said, “The fatal crash occurred on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway around the Danco petrol station, Sagamu, on Saturday, November 30, 2019. The accident occurred around 9.10pm and involved a total of 14 people comprising 10 male adults and four female adults. Nine persons were injured in the crash and five died. The lone crash involved a white Toyota Hiace bus with number plate LSR 642 XB. “The suspected cause of the crash is speed limit violation. The injured victims were rescued to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, while the corpses of the dead victims were deposited in the hospital’s morgue and the obstruction cleared for free flow of traffic.” While commiserating with the victims’ families, Oladele enjoined members of the public, whose relations travelled, to contact the FRSC command in Sagamu or the OOUTH for details of the crash. The sector commander also reiterated the need for motorists to drive cautiously within the recommended speed limit of 50 kilometres per hour at construction sites and urged passengers in vehicles being driven recklessly to caution their drivers and where such drivers refuse, they should call the FRSC toll free number, 122. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  