Ada Wodu, Calabar The Acting Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Cross River State, Ngozi Oghuma, has disclosed that the commission has received non sensitive election materials for the forthcoming bye-elections in the state. Oghuma, who is also the administrative secretary of the commission, disclosed this while speaking with journalists before the participation of INEC band in Carnival Calabar on Saturday. The elections will take place in Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency in Ekureku I and Ekureku II in 18 polling units, and the Abi State Constituency election will take place in 15 polling units. She said, “We want to use this carnival platform to announce that we will soon have court ordered rerun elections in Yakurr/Abi Federal Constituency. And that will be taking place in 18 polling units. Also, we have the Abi State Constituency where we have 15 polling units where we are going to have rerun elections. We already have some non sensitive materials. We are expecting other materials from the headquarters. The elections will take place on the 25th of January, 2020. “We use this event to showcase what we do in INEC. We use it as a platform as approved by the commission to tell members of the public what we do. We are having some events that are coming up very soon. We encourage members of the public, that is, the electorate, those who have their voter cards to take care of them in view of using them when it is time for them to vote so that they will not destroy or deface them. “We also want to tell them that we will soon be having continuous voter registration. Those who want to do transfer, those who are above 18 years, we will encourage them to come and register.” The rerun election in Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency is going to be a straight fight between incumbent member of the House of Representatives, Alex Egbona of the All Progressives Congress and his main opponent and immediate past Speaker of the Cross River State House of Assembly, John Gaul-Lebo of the Peoples Democratic Party.