National Commissioner and Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, speaks with FRIDAY OLOKOR and TUNDE AJAJA, on the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states held on November 16, 2019 and the commission’s preparation for the 2023 general elections How would you assess the performance of INEC in the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections? The Independent National Electoral Commission is a product of the constitution and the law and all its processes and procedures are articulated and encapsulated in the Electoral Act, 2010(as amended). The commission prepared well and followed its processes and procedures in the conduct of the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections. We acknowledge a few glitches recorded and the violence that attended the election in some of the Polling Units. Nobody is happy about it and it will be addressed before we approach another off-season governorship election. A month before the elections, the commission deployed all the non-sensitive materials to the various Local Governments in the two states. The commission trained all the Supervisory Presiding Officers, Presiding Officers, Assistant Presiding Officers, Collation Officers and the Returning Officers. The commission signed individual agreements with boat owners, transporters in the two states, and the Nigerian Navy and the Federal Road Safety Commission profiled them. They were paid 50 per cent of the agreed sum and they were happy and promised to deliver and abide by the agreements signed. The commission held two meetings with critical stakeholders in each of the states and the chairman of the commission, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, flagged the issue of electoral violence, the stockpiling of arms and the importation of political “skull crackers” into the two states from neighboring states. The commission deployed violence-mitigation tools, aggressive civic and voter education tools and other creative initiatives that will make for the conduct of good elections in the two states. So, yes, we are happy that we deployed well but unhappy that some elements within the political class deployed violence in the election and sought to blight the huge preparations of the commission. We are not happy that an ad hoc staff died during the election. We are not happy that violence was unleashed on some of our ad hoc staff. We are unhappy that some voters could not exercise their franchise. Usually, INEC says it consolidates on the gains of previous elections, but this time round, many people are of the view that the gains recorded in 2015 and 2019 were eroded by these two elections given the level of violence and irregularities. Do you think INEC did its best this time round or the irregularities were exaggerated? We must situate the performance of the commission within the matrix and parameters of its constitutional and electoral mandate. The core function of the commission is to organise, undertake and supervise constitutionally prescribed and recognised elections. However, the conduct of elections involves a complex mixture of stakeholders with clearly defined functions and roles that are complimentary and at the same time different. The political parties sponsor candidates for elections and contest elections. The security agencies maintain law and order and provide a serene environment for voters, who must have been duly registered and issued with a permanent voter’s card, to vote. The National Assembly and the Executive have the exclusive right to make laws, alter or amend the constitution and the laws to respond to variegated issues in the electoral process. We believe that we have learnt from previous experiences and improved on our processes and procedures. We mobilised enough Smart Card Readers for the two elections. We deployed six support Resident Electoral Commissioners to support the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Kogi State and five to support that of Bayelsa State. We deployed three national commissioners each to both states. We were well prepared. We recorded a few challenges in the deployment of materials due to the state of infrastructure in the country and deliberate acts of sabotage. Could you expatiate on the acts of sabotage? In one of the Registration Areas, some youths prevented deployment on grounds that the person that hired them to provide security around the Registration Area Centre had not paid them. In another area, some youths surrounded the Registration Area Centre and insisted that it should be moved from its location in a Government College to a town hall. When we moved to the town hall, another set of youths mobilised and insisted that we must go back to the Government College and this prevented timely batching and deployment of materials and personnel to the polling units. In some of the polling units, armed thugs chased our ad hoc staff and voters out of the polling units and destroyed electoral materials. In Bayelsa State, we signed individual contracts with boat owners; they collected 50 per cent of the contract sum and agreed to be paid the remaining after the election and on completion of reverse logistics. However, on Election Day, they turned around and insisted that they must be paid in full before deployment and this led to the late commencement of polls in a few Registration Areas Let me also emphasise that most of the Registration Area Centres owned by the state and local governments are in a bad shape. The commission provides generating sets, water storage tanks, buckets, toiletries and other essentials for the ad hoc staff that make use of the facilities. All these impact on deployment. I believe that the media should direct attention to the political actors that deploy violence as an instrument of the electoral process. The media should ask for explanations on why they persist in corrupting the electoral process. We seem to glamorise the serial impunity of a section of the political elite that believe that the end justifies the means. We seem not to pay enough attention to persons that treacherously set out to violate the sovereign right of the voters to free choice. The commission works with the security agencies under the auspices of the Inter Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security to design deployment template for the elections. We rely on their assurances in the provision of security for the elections. It is their constitutional and statutory right to provide electoral security. The commission is not a security outfit and does not have its own security. Clean elections are a product of the symbiotic workings of all the critical stakeholders in the electoral process. Let Nigerians assess the commission based on its mandate and not based on issues outside its control. READ ALSO: Aisha blaming Nigerians not only us for nation’s rot – Govs There were still incidences of ballot box stuffing and snatching, will there be a time that such issues would become a thing of the past in our elections? The commission does not snatch its own ballot papers. Individuals, political parties and political forces do. The commission does not stuff ballot papers but persons that want to disrupt and distort the will, choices and preferences of the people do. Our responsibility is to deploy personnel and materials to the polling units and our expectation is that the security agencies must provide protection for the materials and the political parties must respect the choices of the people and the sanctity of the electoral process. We have no challenge in the deployment of materials to the polling units. Let communities respect our right to deploy these materials and at the right time. Let the states and the local governments improve facilities in the various Registration Centres where we camp ad hoc staff before deployment to the Polling Units. Let each stakeholder play their part adequately. We will never knowingly endanger the safety and security of ad-hoc that make tremendous sacrifice in the service of the electoral process. Again, INEC warned against vote-buying in Kogi and Bayelsa states, yet it happened as usual. Does it mean the commission is helpless over this menace? The commission is not vested with the power of arrest and investigation of electoral offences. On election day, the only officials in the polling units are Corp members and students of federal tertiary institutions serving as Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers. We recalibrated the polling units to ensure secrecy of the vote and banned the use of cameras and photographic devices in the polling units. We collaborated with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission and the Economic and Financial Crime Commission on the issue of vote-buying, but the practice persist. Some of the political actors exploit the poverty and vulnerability of our people on election day. Sometimes, the people weigh and measure their lives from one electoral cycle to the other and make the determination that the only dividend they may get is the one distributed on election day. So, morality does not solve the problem. Good governance is the only panacea to the issue of vote buying. Many people are of the view that INEC is already overwhelmed by the challenges facing our elections. Is that the case? The commission is not overwhelmed. The commission understands the thrust of its mandate and has been faithful to its processes and procedures. The main challenges in the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections had nothing to do with the commission. We are not making excuses. In Bayelsa, the commission deployed directly to the Registration Areas from the Central Bank of Nigeria. We trained the Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers. We deployed the non-sensitive materials a month before the elections and we engaged with the major stakeholders in the electoral process. It is not the mandate of the commission to secure the environment for the conduct of elections. The commission collaborates with the security agencies to ensure good deployment of security agencies on election day. I believe that the media should focus on the activities of political opportunists that specialise in derailing the electoral process through vote-buying, ballot box snatching, unmitigated violence and treasonable attempt to overwhelm the electoral process. The focus should be on those that train and deploy violent individuals to the polling units to either prevent deployment or to prevent voters from exercising their franchise. The democratic spirit demands strict adherence to democratic tenets. The conduct of elections is challenging but we are driving the process and we have the capacity and the courage to give Nigerians clean elections. Election monitors have asked that the Kogi election be cancelled due to the level of atrocities that marred the election. Will INEC consider cancelling the election? The commission is a product of the constitution and the law. The commission has its processes and procedures and adheres strictly to its processes and procedures. Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) gives the commission the power to suspend elections before the commencement of such elections in cases of natural disasters or cogent and verifiable cases of violence or anticipated cases of violence. Constitutionally and legally, the commission is not vested with the power or authority to cancel an election wherein the Collation/Returning Officer has made a Declaration and Return. It amounts to grandstanding, playing to the gallery and sentimental brainwave for the commission to pretend that such powers reside with it. We don’t have such powers and will not exercise it. There is the belief by some persons that INEC always wants to conduct the exercise, with or without the irregularities and then push the parties to the court to resolve their issues. How does this belief make you feel? Nigerians are the ones that conduct the elections. The entire paid staff of the commission cannot start and conclude one election. We must focus on those that perpetrate the irregularities. The commission mobilises back to the polling unit if election fails on account of logistic challenges. The commission postpones election to the following day in cases of sustained malfunction of the Smart Card Reader. The commission designed Form EC40G for Presiding Officers to record incidents of over voting, ballot box snatching and sundry electoral offences. The report in the forms and the report of the Presiding Officer are the ones used by the Collation Officers in recording what happened at the polling unit. Results are cancelled at the polling units. The commission tried to enforce its power of withholding the Certificates of Return of some candidates on account of Collation Centre bad behaviour but the courts rolled it back citing sections 68 and 75 of the Electoral Act. The commission is only a respondent in election petitions and does not push anybody to the court. The commission only recognises the right of petitioners to seek redress if they feel strongly about issues in the election. There is no doubt that INEC is incurring more cost in organising elections in the country and INEC National Commissioner, Mr Solomon Soyebi, said in June that e-voting for 2023 elections was inevitable while another Commissioner (Operations), Prof Okey Ibeanu, said Nigeria was not yet ripe for it due to the absence of a robust technical and physical infrastructure. What is the true position of INEC on the adoption of e-voting in 2023? I can’t see the contradiction in both positions. The commission works based on extant laws. The commission will comply with the law if same is amended and the commission is mandated to adopt new technologies. However, any amendment to the law must document the commencement date for the introduction of electronic voting or collation with the commission. Technologies vary from country to country and have environmental and other peculiarities. A substantial proportion of our people live in places not covered by any of the major networks. Several of our people live in places without power and with limited infrastructure. The issue of cyber security must be factored in. The test-run of the new technology must also be done with small elections. We should be looking at a duality of manual and electronic systems to support, reinforce and complement one another. The bill for Electronic Voting has passed second reading at the Senate. Is there likelihood that INEC would do electronic voting in 2023? INEC cannot give an assurance on hypothetical projections. A bill remains a bill and can only be effectual if passed and signed into law. As I said, the commission must drive the process of the introduction of new technologies in the electoral process. It must be introduced gradually into the electoral process because if all the variables are not explored its misapplication or mishandling can throw the country off balance and lead to unintended consequences of breakdown of law and order. Let me emphasise that it is easy to legislate and bring in new and creative innovations in the electoral process but without a good electoral behaviour, the innovations can be undermined and they will lose their efficacy and fear factor. With e-voting comes the suspicion that the system could be manipulated and hacked into, how best do you think the system could be devoid of malpractices? Electoral design cannot solve all the problems in the electoral process. So many countries conduct good and acceptable elections using the manual process. The success, acceptability and credibility of elections does not depend solely on the quantum of laws passed to back up the process but more fundamentally on the democratic credentials of the operators and their fidelity to the constitution and the law. I am not too sure that you can legislate good electoral behaviour. Our present situation is that anti-democratic elements constantly undermine innovations in the electoral process. They worked hard and found the formula of the Smart Card Reader and designed escape route and mechanism to undermine it and they have undermined it. How do you mean? The commission introduced the Smart Card Reader as a quality control mechanism to strengthen the authentication and verification of the Permanent Voters Cards and eliminate “ghost” voters and multiple voting. However, the political opportunists jumped at the judgement of the Supreme Court that the card reader machine has not replaced the voter’s register or taken the place of statement of results in appropriate forms as the dominant method of provision of over voting to undermine and reduce the efficacy of the Smart Card Reader. There is every possibility that with manual voting in 2023, the cost of the election would be more than what was experienced in 2019 given that there would be more registered voters. Does it mean there is no alternative to expensive elections? Democracy by its very nature is expensive. Our own situation is compounded by the fact that there is trust deficit in our electoral process and the middle class lacks the political will to put a stop to electoral impunity. The commission prints ballot papers and result sheets to currency standard and moves them to the Central Bank of Nigeria with all the security details and features accorded to the national currency. A large proportion of our ballot papers and result sheets are printed outside the country and moved into Nigeria close to elections. The commission deploys and pays over one million ad hoc staff that conducts elections. The commission carries out civic and voter education. The commission provides generating sets to the over 8809 Registration Areas and provides water tanks and other essentials needed by the ad hoc staff. The commission replaces Smart Card Readers destroyed in the course of elections and improves their quality. The commission provides cubicles, chairs, tables, pen, paper and biro to the over 120,000 polling units and over 50,000 voting points. The commission hires vehicles and boats to move ad hoc staff before and on election day. These costs will reduce the moment the political elite begin to play by the rules. It will also reduce the moment we achieve a certain duality in terms of electronic and manual accreditation, voting and transmission of results. At the end of every election, there are hundreds/thousands of booklets that are destroyed due to the usual low turnout of voters. Is there no other way around this wastage? The commission prints ballot papers in accordance with the number of registered voters and prints result sheets based on the number of political parties. The commission does not see the future to determine the number of persons that will turn out to cast their votes. It will be disastrous to under-print ballot papers and tell the voters on the queue that the ballot papers for election are exhausted. The situation may improve with quantitative improvement in electoral behaviour and the injection of technology in our electoral process. It costs money to print the ballot papers and its costs money to destroy them and no one is happy about it. Does it not mean that INEC loses money when Nigerians don’t come out to vote? The commission spends monies appropriated by the National Assembly. The commission is a creation of the constitution and the law and it is the taxpayers’ money. The commission is a public trust and the electoral tribune of the Nigerian people. We are sensitive to the sensibilities of the Nigerian people and try as much as possible to husband their resources to the best of our ability. Yes, money is lost, and ballots are destroyed but that is the way the electoral process is configured. We print ballots for re-run elections in case no presidential candidate meets the constitutional threshold on first ballot. Reversing logistics and mobilising back to the polling units is not a child’s play. Printing and distributing ballot papers and according them all the security cover accorded national currencies is not easy. This must be accomplished within 21 days. Prior to the alteration of the constitution, the commission had seven days to mobilise back to the polling units in cases of inconclusive election on the first ballot. So, the commission must print in advance and destroy if there is a winner on the first ballot. READ ALSO: Diezani’s Dominican Republic diplomatic passport protecting her from prosecution – Report From INEC’s standpoint, who is to blame for the violence and irregularities that mar our elections? Is it politicians, the electorate or security agencies who have always been accused of being complicit? The commission is interested in finding solutions to the problems and challenges of the electoral process. There are enough blames to share. The political parties must recommit themselves to the success of the electoral process and the political opportunists wearing the gab of defenders of democracy must desist from undermining the integrity of our elections through the sponsorship of acts of brigandage and mayhem in the electoral process. The security agencies must act professionally and ethically and must always remember that the country must come first before individuals and political parties. The voters will comfortably go to the polling units if their safety and security are assured. The ad hoc staff will enthusiastically perform their assigned duties if they are not harassed, molested or compromised. The task of getting our elections back on track is a shared responsibility. Now that these rounds of elections are over before Edo State governorship election, when will INEC resume another round of registration exercise and distribution of voter cards? Very soon. We have a few courts ordered re-run elections between now and February. We intend to fix dates for these elections and early in 2020 the commission will take a decision on the resumption of PVC’s collection and continuous voter registration. Given the new amendments to the electoral law, when will INEC resume the training of its staff on the new developments in the 2023 general elections? We will wait and see the extent of the amendments. Based on the amendments, we will redesign and rework our training manuals and our regulations and guidelines. We normally train our Master Trainers and our Electoral and Assistant Electoral Officers before trainings are cascaded down to the lower level. We also train our ad hoc staff close to the election. One problematic aspect of the electioneering is the difficulty in tracking the amount spent by political parties in campaigns despite the peg by the Electoral Act, what new ways are you devising to monitor electoral spending? We have a finance tracking manual and mechanism in place, but it is important for the political parties and the candidates to report honestly. Sometimes, it is difficult to track these funds because they are not moved through the banks. Sometimes third parties spend the monies on behalf of the parties and the candidates. We will keep upgrading our tracking devises and update our forms and accelerate the process of ensuring compliance. Last year, the INEC chairman released the dates of elections up till 2055, starting with 2023, will it still hold on February 18 and March 4? The dates for the conduct of elections in Nigeria are constitutionally circumscribed. We fix the dates within the constitutionally permissible window. The dates are valid, but we are permitted to move within the narrow ambit of the “150 days before and not later than 30 days to”. The present dates allow us to accommodate re-run elections and other constitutional and legal exigencies. So, the political parties know the dates in advance, and they will not be found to complain that they were taken by surprise. There must be certainty in our electoral process. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 