Rasheed Bisiriyu Toyota Nigeria Limited has urged motorists and drivers to ensure regular maintenance of their vehicles to get maximum benefits from the automobiles. Head, Dealers development and Special Projects, TNL, Mr Henry Ojuoko, gave the advice in Lagos at the 2019 Drivers’ Education Forum organised by Elizade Nigeria Limited. He said, “To get the desired value from Toyota vehicle, owner/driver must take the regular maintenance of the vehicle very seriously. “The important thing is that when you’re in your vehicle, it should take you to where you desire. If you do the right thing, you will enjoy your vehicle; it won’t give you any trouble and it’s going to be durable. When you decide to resell it, the value will be attractive and you make a lot of money.” Ojuoko stressed that owners and drivers of Toyota vehicles must ensure that only accredited Toyota dealers were allowed to handle their vehicles. “When you do this, you can rest assured that your vehicle will not only last long but will give you rest of mind before the next service date,” he said. He commended Elizade for the interactive section with the drivers, adding that “targeting the customers and more significantly the drivers, who are the custodians of the vehicles, was important for all parties. The Executive Director, Sales and Marketing, Elizade Nigeria, Mr Akin Ojebode, who was represented at the event by Mr Joseph Adaghe said, “This year’s forum tagged ‘Toyota My Ride Elizade My Choice’ aptly describes our desire to keep working with our numerous customers and potential ones in giving you unique products an unequal service that gives you value for money at all times. “The immense contributions you have made towards our brand has made it to become a household name in this country cannot be wished away.” He promised to keep serving the customers in the best way possible, adding, “We are prepared to make your experience even sweeter and better going forward.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 