Nike Popoola Capital Express Holdings has said it will sell off its African operations with the exception of its subsidiary in Kenya. The group said the sale was to focus and strengthen its Nigeria operations spanning insurance, asset management, investment banking, commodity trading, trusteeship and franchising. The Group Managing Director, Capital Express Holdings, Mr Yinka Obalade, said that the sales of its overseas assets were expected to be concluded by the first quarter of 2020. Obalade who spoke at the group’s just concluded strategic retreat/board meeting in Lagos, said the board had granted approval to utilise the proceeds in line with the strategic goals of the organisation. The goals included the recapitalisation of its life insurance operations in Nigeria through the acquisitions of firms that would further increase the capacity of the company to meet the recapitalisation requirement as directed by the National Insurance Commission. “The acquisition will be an addition to the funds which the Holding Company is injecting in the first instance into the company,” he stated. He reiterated that its other areas of business such as  asset management, investment, banking, trusteeship among others, would also be beneficiaries of the funds towards repositioning the entire brand for greater competitiveness in all its areas of operations. The GMD maintained that the sales process of some of the companies was already concluded while others were being finalised to ensure they that the  deadline of 1st quarter 2020 was met. He said that the board discussed other options before arriving at the conclusion to sell its overseas operations. “The board having reviewed all options urged the group to ensure higher return for investors and the funds injected in these companies should make it a brand to be reckoned with in its areas of operations,” he said. He added that the holding company believed strongly as part of its strategic goals in building infrastructure, enhancing technology, digitalisation combined with seasoned professionals running key areas of its operations across board. “It is believed that by the end of 2020, the results of some of these board strategic initiatives would start to yield dividends,” he stated. He appreciated the board members for their confidence in the ability of management to deliver on these initiatives and in the Nigerian economy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 