Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Refineries under the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation stayed dormant for three consecutive months as they processed no drop of crude oil, latest report on the operations of the facilities has shown. An analysis of the consolidated operations of the refineries showed that the plants were dormant in July, August and September with respect to the processing of crude oil. The refineries under the management of the NNPC are the Warri Refining and Petrochemical Company, Port Harcourt Refining Company and Kaduna Refining and Petrochemical Company. It was also observed that the consolidated capacity utilisation of the facilities was zero per cent in each of the three months. In terms of their consolidated financial performance, the facilities consistently posted losses for 13 straight months. The report showed that since September 2018, the three refineries had been posting losses every month. It was observed that the highest single consolidated loss posted by the refineries during the 13-month period was recorded in June 2019, as the facilities lost N17.4bn in that month. The report stated, “In September 2019, the three refineries processed no crude but produced 967 metric tonnes of finished products; primarily from the WRPC and PHRC. “Similar to last month, combined yield efficiency is 0.00 per cent owing largely to ongoing rehabilitation work in the refineries.” It further stated that for the month of August 2019, the three refineries produced -9,599MT of intermediate products at combined capacity utilisation of 0.00 per cent. READ ALSO: FG targets N939bn from oil block licences renewal “The declining operational performance recorded is attributable to ongoing revamping of the refineries, which is expected to further enhance capacity utilisation once completed,” the report stated. On the refineries’ economics for the period, September 2019, the report stated that the NNPC had been adopting a Merchant Plant Refineries Business Model since January 2017. It said, “The model takes cognisance of the products worth and crude costs. The combined value of output by the three refineries (at import-parity price) for the month of September 2019 amounted to N1.03bn. “No associated crude plus freight cost for the three refineries since there was no production, while operational expenses amounted to N11.24bn. This resulted in the current operating deficit of N10.20bin and an adjusted deficit of 7.07bn by the refineries, after adjusting for prior overstated deficits by the PHRC.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 