The Nigerian Bar Association on Sunday denied a statement posted on and attributed to it through its Twitter handle, @NigBarAssoc, calling for President Muhammad Buhari’s impeachment in the aftermath of the invasion of the Federal High Court in Abuja by the operatives of the Department of State Service in their bid to re-arrest Sahara Reporters publisher, Omoyele Sowore, on Friday. A tweet on the NBA official Twitter handle had called on the National Assembly to pass a resolution sacking the DSS Director-General, Yusuf Bichi, and to institute impeachment proceedings against the President should he fail to comply with the legislative resolution. But a statement on Sunday by the NBA, through its National Publicity Secretary, Kunle Edun, while restating its condemnation of the Friday’s conduct of the DSS operatives, and calling for the agency to apologise to the Nigerian public, said the association neither called for Buhari’s impeachment nor involved the National Assembly in the matter. The association said the Saturday tweet through its twitter handle was done without the authorisation of the NBA President, Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN), whom it said had made the association’s position on the incident known in an interview with a broadcast station, which it said did not include a call for Buhari’s impeachment. The statement read, “Our attention has been drawn to a purported call by the Nigerian Bar Association for, amongst others, the commencement of impeachment proceedings by the National Assembly against President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR in the event that the Director General of the Department of State Security is not sacked by the President following the attempted arrest of Omoyele Sowore in the courtroom of the Federal High Court in Abuja last Friday, December 6, 2019. “That publication does not represent the position of the NBA and was not known to nor mandated by the NBA President. “The Nigerian Bar Association Constitution, 2015 (as amended) mandates only the President to speak on behalf of the Association and he had made the position of the NBA known to everyone in his interview with Channels Television that was broadcast live on Friday, December 6, 2019 in its 10pm network news slot. “That broadcast has been rebroadcasted through YouTube links and can easily be downloaded therefrom by anyone. ” In no part of that interview did the NBA involve the National Assembly neither did we call for the impeachment of the President over the incident. “We condemned in unmistakable terms the incident and the conduct of the DSS and called for the Department to tender a public apology to the Nigerian people, but we did not howsoever personalise the grave issues that arose from the incident. “That broadcast remains the position of the Nigerian Bar Association. “