Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Walid Jibrin, has hinted the party will soon commence high-level consultations and search for a credible candidate to fly the party’s flag for the 2023 presidency. Jubrin, who made this known while speaking with newsmen in Kaduna on Thursday, also said every interested and eligible member of the party from any part of Nigeria was free to aspire for the presidency under the PDP platform. When asked whether the PDP would adopt Atiku Abubakar, its candidate in the 2019 presidential election, the BoT chairman said the former Vice-President ,like every other Nigerian, could still contest if he so wished. “Atiku is a Nigerian. Has he really failed in that (2019 presidential) election? The case went from the tribunal to the appeal court and up to the Supreme Court. If Atiku wants, he has the right to do so and other people have the right to do so. Do you think it is only Atiku that wants to contest? “On the presidential candidate, the National Working Committee, in consultation with all relevant organs of the party, will reveal the plan for coming up with our presidential candidate. “I don’t think there is anything wrong to allow anybody from any zone to show interest, but our collective decision will bring out an agreeable candidate. “Meanwhile, what is there for us is to work hard to unite the party by making it the strongest and unbeatable party in the next presidential election.” Walid also said the BoT was making the necessary moves to reconcile the governors of Rivers State, Nyesome Wike and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson The rift between the two South-South governors took a twist on Tuesday when Wike rejected the PDP intervention in the matter. However, the BoT chairman said it would intercede in order to put its house in order ahead of the 2023 general elections. The BoT chairman said, “The BoT is making necessary arrangement to reconcile the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and the Governor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson and of course, all members in order to unite our party with a view to  taking over government from the ruling APC in 2023. “The disunity among the PDP governors demands urgent intervention by the conscience of the party and the advisory body. The BoT is ready to remain neutral all the time. “Such intervention will start immediately with the two governors. The BoT will therefore pay a special visit to the two governors in order to end the crisis. “We have also directed the BoT Committee on Peace and Conflicts to visit Edo, Kano, Lagos, Osun, Bayelsa and other states which are engulfed in conflicts with a view to making peace.” He added the BoT would visit other PDP governors in the South-South geopolitical zone, to encourage them to continue with the development in their various states. The BoT chairman also admonished party members to stay away from hate speech and avoid abusive languages among members and non-members alike. “All members must respect the dignity and supremacy of the party,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    