Mudiaga Affe A new dimension was on Saturday added to gospel music concert organised by the House on the Rock, as the church’s Senior Pastor, Paul Adefarasin, empowered several ‘area boys’ on the Lagos Island axis of Lagos State. He distributed tricycles and commercial buses to get them meaningfully engaged. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who attended the concert with his wife, Ibijoke, pledged that the state government would equally key into the project to ensure its sustainability. The annual event tagged “Experience 14” adjudged to be one of the biggest gospel music concerts in Nigeria, attracted over 250, 000 worshipers cut across different denominations. The worshipers danced to the musical rendition by some of the celebrated recording artists like Travis Greene, Sinach, Nathaniel Bassey, Tope Alabi, Donnie McClurkin, Planetshakers, Chioma Jesus, Eben, Onos Ariyo, and Sammie Okposo, among others. The event also attracted several dignitaries including representatives of the British High Commission and the United States Consulate in Nigeria. According to Adefarasin, the church has over the years collaborated with the Lagos Island ‘area boys’ in the area of rehabilitation and skills acquisition to get them meaningfully engaged. READ ALSO: JRC disagrees with MEND over Onyema’s US indictment He said, “At this time, we are very thankful for the Lagos Island area boys that we have christened and renamed them Jesus boys. We have a partnership with them for over 24 years dividing healthcare, education, rehabilitation, and skills acquisitions. “Now, we are taking it a little further to empower them by creating a transport industry that the ‘area’ boys will be able to run. It involves various types of vehicular transportation but we are starting the pilot scheme with the Keke-Marwa (tricycle). “We would also give them several vehicles for commercial transportation purposes. They will be delivered to them in the next 72 hours. The very best of them have been identified and they will be handed their buses.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 