Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Three people, including a commercial motorcyclist, lost their lives on Saturday when a truck that suffered brake failure, ran over them in Osogbo, Osun State. Two other people, including a pregnant woman, were also injured in the accident that occurred along the West bypass, Iwo/Osogbo Road. An eyewitness, Dosu Olanipekun, told our correspondent that the sand-laden truck, with number plate FNN 364 XA, was coming from the Iwo end of the road when it suffered brake failure. Olanipekun stated, “The truck was approaching a junction, when the crash occurred. A commercial motorcyclist conveying a pregnant woman and one other passenger was attempting to pass through the junction when the truck arrived the point. “The truck ran over the three of them. The motorcyclist and the other passenger died on the spot. But the pregnant woman was rushed out of the scene by paramedics of the Osun State Ambulance Scheme to hospital. “The paramedics from the Osun State Ambulance Scheme arrived early and that assisted in saving the lives of the other victims.” Olanipekun added that the truck, after ramming the motorcyclist and his two female passengers, also hit a Nissan Primera car with number plate EJG 581AA and injured the driver, who was the only occupant of the vehicle. According to him, the truck eventually stopped after it had a head-on collision with another vehicle, killing its driver on the spot. READ ALSO: Catholic priests’ abductors demand N100m ransom When contacted, the General Manager, Osun State Ambulance Scheme, Dr Olusegun Babatunde, said two units of the scheme within Osogbo metropolis were mobilised after he received a distress call from the scene of the accident. He stated, “A pregnant woman, who was injured in the accident, was taken to Ladoke Akintola University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, where she is currently receiving treatment. Another victim was also taken to hospital by our officials. “Three lives were, however, lost to the accident. Officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps and the police were also involved in the rescue operation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 