Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Four suspected cultists have been arrested by the police following killings in some parts of Ilesha, Osun State, last week. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Folasade Odoro, confirmed the arrests in a chat with PUNCH Metro on Sunday. Three persons were killed in some parts of Ilesha on Thursday and Friday last week in what was suspected to be a supremacy fight between the Eiye and Axe confraternities. According to findings, the rival cults clashed in areas like Akewusola Street, Isare Street and Akinobi junction, Okeopo Street, Ilesha metropolis. A corpse, whose identity could not be ascertained as of press time, found at the Akinobi junction, Okeopo Street, on Thursday reportedly triggered a fight between the groups. The corpse of another woman identified as Iya Taye, who had deep machete cuts on her head, it was learnt, was found on Akewusola Street, also on Thursday, while a man, identified simply as Adesola, was shot dead by some suspected cultists on Isare Street. Odoro told PUNCH Metro that three persons died in the clashes, but said normalcy had been restored in the affected areas. Commenting on the clashes in a chat with our correspondent on Sunday, Odoro said a close watch on identified hideouts of cults led to the arrest of four suspects. READ ALSO: Fake military men, two others hijack petrol-laden tanker She said those arrested belonged to the Eiye and Axe confraternities, adding that the suspects in custody were already helping the command with useful information. “We have four suspects in our custody already. We are paying close attention to already identified black spots. We won’t relent until all criminal elements are off the streets,” Odoro stated. She urged law-abiding residents not to entertain any fear as the police would intensify efforts to keep the state save during and after the festive period. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 