Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Coalition of Civil Society Domestic Election Observer Groups on Monday hailed Saturday’s local government election in Ekiti State, saying it met global standards and complied with best practices. The coalition’s team leader, Muhammad Hashidu, lauded the State Independent Electoral Commission, Ekiti State Government, the police and other security agencies and as well the people of the state for their efforts in making the election successful, free, fair and transparent. Hashidu, who addressed journalists in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, on the coalition’s observations, said, “We hereby state that the election conducted was free, fair, credible and violence-free, which made it meet international standards and best practices.” The ruling All Progressives Congress in the state won all the available 16 chairmanship and 177 councillorship seats during the election. The team leader said the fact that materials promptly arrived at the 2,195 polling units with voting and collation freely done in a manner bereft of harassment and intimidation attested to the credibility of the poll. The coalition however called for more voter education to enhance people’s participation in the electoral process. The National Coordinator of Network of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria, Victor Kalu, said the neutrality maintained by government and security agencies reinforced the acceptability of the poll. “As much as government’s neutrality in the exercise was evident, we must not fail to indicate that the government of Ekiti State, to the extent of their official responsibility, did whatever was in their line of duty to ensure an effective and peaceful election,” Kalu said. In another development, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Opeyemi Bamidele, has tasked the newly-elected council officials to prioritise development of their councils and refrain from corrupt tendencies that could dash the people’s hope. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  