Daud  Olatunji, Abeokuta A tanker driver and his motor boy, whose identities could not be ascertained, on Tuesday reported themselves to the police at the Ibafo Police Station after their vehicle crushed two persons to death on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The accident occurred at Ago-Igbala, Ibafo, in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State. Our correspondent gathered that the crash involved a tanker with number plate ABC 580 XS and a motorcycle with no number plate. It was learnt that the motorcyclist died on the spot, while his passenger died while being rushed to a nearby hospital. The deceased persons were reportedly hit from the rear by the tanker while travelling on the road. According to an eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the truck driver was on top speed when he hit the motorcycle from the rear. The Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the accident. Akinbiyi said in a statement that the victims lost their lives as a result of the impact of the crash. He stated, “The motorcycle was hit by the tanker from the rear because of the way and manner it was manoeuvring in and out of lanes without any precaution. “The motorcyclist died on the spot, while the female passenger died on her way to hospital. “However, the driver of the tanker and his motor boy have reported themselves at the Ibafo Police Station, where the vehicle and motorcycle are kept. “The bodies of the two dead victims have been deposited in the mortuary of the Divine Heights Hospital, Ibafo.” TRACE commiserated with the families of the deceased and pleaded with motorcyclists to avoid the use of the expressway and maintain discipline anytime they were on the road because of the consequences of reckless operations. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 