’Femi Asu The Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria has said favourable policies will boost investments in the nation’s oil and gas sector. The Publicity Secretary, PETAN, Mr Ranti Omole, lamented that oil service companies in the country were taking a beating from the delay in projects. Omole, who is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Radial Circle Nigeria Limited, described Total’s Egina deepwater oilfield as the last big project in the sector. “The first challenge facing our members is that we don’t have more projects. The delay in projects has affected us; our members keep paying their staff, waiting for the next project. So, they have increasing overheads because they don’t have projects right now,” he said on the sidelines of PETAN’s 2019 Clients’ Appreciation and Industry Achievement Awards in Lagos. According to him, the next projects being expected are Total’s Ikike oilfield, Shell’s Bonga South-West Aparo oil field and Nigeria LNG’s Train 7. Omole said, “All these projects are in the pipeline and hopefully, final investment decision on Train 7 will be taken as stated by the NNPC. If they do that, it will be a game changer in the economy. It is not just a project that will impact the high-class service providers, it will also impact a lot of community people. “We need catalysts; we need projects to be able to stimulate the industry. The service providers employ quite a number of people. We are a very big chain, not only PETAN members. We have thousands of service providers across the country supporting the oil industry. We need to get projects and that is the only way the industry can sustain itself.” He added, “Quite a number of us on different occasions have come together to collaborate in order to get bigger projects or try to see how we can leverage our various strengths so that we can get more. “Also, we keep on engaging ourselves to talk about collaboration frameworks and various platforms for us to be able to come together and harness our resources so that it will also help us in certain areas where we don’t have the capability.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com