Ifeanyi Onuba and Femi Asu The Federal Inland Revenue Service on Sunday announced a 30-day window for taxpayers to obtain their 20202 tax clearance certificates beginning from January 2 next year. The Executive Chairman, Muhammad Nami, said this in a notice to taxpayers personally signed by him. He said the window which would end on January 31 was created to make it easy for taxpayers to obtain the TCC. This, he said, followed numerous complaints received from taxpayers on difficulties encountered in obtaining the TCC. He also said considering the fact that the TCC would be used by contractors and service providers to seek contracts, obtain loans, renew permits, registration, franchises, and sign agreements, there was a need to make it easier for taxpayers to obtain the TCC. Nami noted that the offer to ease the issuance of the TCC was in line with the provisions of Section 101 (1) of Companies Income Tax Act 2004 and in conformity with Self-Assessment Regulation, 2011. He said, “Notice is hereby given that the Service has put in place machinery to issue 2020 TCC for all eligible taxpayers from 2nd January to 31st January, 2020. READ ALSO: Refineries process no crude oil in three months “The issuance of the TCC to ease the burden of taxpayers is in line with the provisions of Section 101 (1) of CITA LFN 2004 and in conformity with Self-Assessment Regulation, 2011. “Taxpayers are therefore encouraged to take advantage of this initiative and apply for their 2020 TCC as soon as possible.” He warned that the FIRS would not hesitate to use enforcement activities including imposition of lien on bank accounts of defaulting companies to recover any outstanding debts when discovered that the taxpayer had misled the agency in the area of tax compliance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com