Daud Olatunji A herdsman, Muhammad Garba, has reportedly killed a 35-year-old farmer, Segun Akinlade, for attacking him with a catapult on his farm. Our correspondent learnt that the incident occurred last Sunday at Imala in the Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. It was gathered that the deceased was infuriated when he got to his farm and saw the herdsman with his cattle on his farmland. The farmer allegedly attacked the herdsman with his catapult, which prompted the herdsman to retaliate and killed him. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident on Saturday. In a statement, Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested following a distress call received by the police at Imala division. The police spokesperson said the Divisional Police Officer at Imala Division, CSP Mobolaji Jimoh, mobilised his men to the scene of the attack after receiving the distress call. “On getting to the scene, the deceased’s corpse was met on the ground while the suspect also had machete cuts on his body. The suspect was identified and promptly arrested,” he said. “Preliminary investigation revealed that trouble started when the deceased got to his newly cleared farmland and met the suspect grazing his cattle. “In order to chase him away, he used a catapult to frighten him but the catapult’s stone hit the herdsman on the forehead. This infuriated the suspect, who brought out cutlass to fight the deceased, who was also with a cutlass. READ ALSO: We still have more weapons to surrender if Fulani bandits surrender theirs – Leader, Zamfara Yan Sakai vigilance group “The two of them used cutlass to attack each other, resulting in the death of the deceased. The corpse has been deposited at the mortuary for autopsy.” Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 