Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Accountant General of the Federation, Mr Ahmed Idris, has  put the number of university workers so far registered under the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System at 94,990. The figure, according to the AGF, represents about 70 per cent of workers in federal universities. He said this when the Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Federal Universities visited him in Abuja. Out of the 94,990 university workers so far enrolled, about 8,146 of them were academic staff while the balance of 86, 844 were non-academic staff. In a statement on Tuesday from the Deputy Director (Press and Public Relations) in the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, Mr Henshaw Ogubike, the AGF said the IPPIS would not take away the autonomy of universities as was being claimed by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. The vice-chancellors had raised some concerns about the recent enrolment of university staff into the IPPIS. Some of the concerns include the autonomy of the universities as well as the peculiarities of the university system which may not be effectively addressed by the Federal Government’s payroll system. But Idris, according to the statement, assured the lecturers that their concerns had been factored into the IPPIS. He added that there was no need for the universities workers to worry. He explained that the IPPIS was robust enough to accommodate and efficiently address all genuine concerns and peculiarities in the Nigerian universities. He said, “All the peculiarities should be stated, all the rules of engagement should equally be stated; we are ready to go by the rules of engagement. “All the rules that are recognised by the government in the universities, we will go by these rules, none will be set aside. “All rules and peculiarities in the universities that are recognised by the government will be accommodated and implemented through the IPPIS.” Idris said the objection by ASUU to the IPPIS was unfounded as the Federal Government had, during many meetings with them, assured them that the new payroll system was to enhance effective management of personnel cost. He stated that the practice where universities recruited staff not minding whether their budget would accommodate such employment was responsible for the issue of shortfall in personnel revenue. The AGF explained that the IPPIS would help the universities solve the problem of a shortfall in personnel cost as the payment platform would make the recruitment and remuneration of staff more efficient. He solicited the cooperation of the vice-chancellors in the implementation of the IPPIS and other financial reform initiatives aimed at entrenching probity and transparency in the system. The Chairman of the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Vice-Chancellor of the Bayero University, Kano, Prof Muhammad Bello, requested the AGF to assist them in addressing the peculiarities in the university system. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com