Chima Azubuike, Gombe The Gombe field office of the Department of Petroleum Resources has uncovered 800,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit diverted by marketers operating in the state. The Operations Controller in charge of the field office, Mallam Abdullahi Abawa, said this in an interview with journalists in Gombe on Wednesday. He said the field office decided to embark on surveillance to check the unwholesome practices by some marketers, who often capitalise on festive periods to short-change unsuspecting members of the public. Abawa assured residents of the state of constant supply of petroleum products throughout the Yuletide period and in the months following. He stated, “We have enough products at the NNPC depot in the state. The stock can serve Gombe’s needs for months. “The marketers are our customers; that they divert products is not noble; it is a calling and we are well taken care of to do this. We don’t expect that because it is Christmas, we should rest on our laurels. “This is a critical season; if you don’t go out to check these marketers, there will be a lot of problems, which may lead to product scarcity.” Abawa warned that those caught diverting products would be made to pay the necessary fines to serve as a deterrent to others. He said, “It is either they are made to return the quantity they have diverted or we charge them N275 per litre. All together, we have about 800,000 litres that have been diverted. “We have our laws and regulations in place. If you divert, there are portions of the law that will deal with you. It is one thing for the DPR to deal with marketers, it is another for the marketers to fall in line.” Meanwhile, out of the 11 filling stations that the DPR sealed off in Gombe on Monday, six were shut for operating with expired licences. Three others were sealed off for gross under dispensing petrol from their pumps. One filling station was shut for diverting 30,000 litres of PMS, while another was sealed off for allowing indiscriminate parking of trucks on its premises. The stations were shut on the Kashere and Bauchi roads as well as the Biu bypass. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    