Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja Some members of the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress have asked the party leadership to review suspensions and administrative actions causing crisis in the party. Speaking on the platform of the Non-National Working Committee Members Forum, they urged the party to work towards an harmonious resolution of such issues towards having a stronger party that could stand the test of time. The Deputy National Chairman (North), Lawal Shuaibu; the National Vice Chairman (North-West), Inuwa AbdulKadir; a former Imo State governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha; and a former Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, among others are currently on suspension. In a communique by its Chairman, Nelson Alapa and Secretary, Omolaoye Akintola, after their meeting in Abuja, the forum appealed to leaders and stakeholders to sheathe their swords and allow the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and his team concentrate on pressing national issues. It also urged Buhari to ensure their members, party officials and members were given appointments within the shortest time possible. The communique read, “We therefore call on all concerned parties to put all differences behind them and move the party forward. “We appeal to all party leaders and stakeholders to sheath their swords majorly to allow Muhammadu Buhari and his team concentrate on pressing national issues and policies that would promote peace, harmony, economic growth, improved security and solid foundation laying for the ‘Next Level Agenda’ for our dear country, Nigeria. “We also suggest that the party leadership review critically various suspensions and other administrative actions which have generated crises with a view to bringing all the concerned people to a roundtable for harmonious resolution of such issues towards having a stronger party that can stand the test of time. “The Presidency is further being enjoined to ensure that Non-NWC members, party officials, nominees/committed party members generated from the states are fixed into federal boards, agencies and commissions within shortest time possible.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    