Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Waste managers in Lagos otherwise known as PSP operators have said there is a need to imbibe global best practices in waste management in the state and the country at large. The operators under the auspices of the Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria made this known during group’s gala and award night where icons of waste management in Lagos were recognised with a former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, named the ‘Generalissimo of the environment”. The President of AWAMN, Mr David Oriyomi, said business growth could be tied to a clean environment, hence the need for proper waste management. “My desire is to make sure that we have a clean environment; to innovate and move from refuse collection, transportation and disposal to recycling of waste,” he said. Oriyomi stated that rickety trucks and ill-looking workers would soon be a thing of the past in the waste management ecosystem in Lagos. The association had earlier held a two-day workshop on capacity building for members in partnership with the Lagos State Government through the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources and the Lagos State Waste Management Authority, among others. The Publicity Secretary of AWAMN and chairman of the capacity building committee, Mr Adebola Olugbenga, said the association planned to professionalise waste management industry in Nigeria, starting from Lagos State. He said, “There is a need to expose all personnel involved in waste management in Nigeria starting from Lagos State through best international best practice. The recent sad experience of mismanagement and the policy of the immediate past administration of the state returned the state to the way it was about 20 years ago. “The event necessitated the repositioning of the association through an election which was done in August and inauguration of the executive committee to lead the association and waste management to an enviable position in the state.” He said through the years, Lagos, formerly known as one of the dirtiest cities in the world, had attained an enviable height and would remain so. According to him, at present, there are about 400 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises involved in the PSP operation, thus generating employment for over 4,000 people and creating additional 16,000 indirect jobs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 