Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The transition committee of the All Progressives Congress in Bayelsa State will review and carry out preliminary assessment of the balance sheet of the outgoing administration of Governor Seriake Dickson. This was among 12 terms of reference handed the committee by the state governor-elect, David Lyon, during the inauguration of the committee at the APC secretariat in Yenagoa on Wednesday. The 59-member committee is chaired by a former speaker of the state House of Assembly, Werinipre Seibarugu, while a former Head of Service, Obegha Oworibo, is the secretary. The committee, in reviewing the state government’s balance sheet, was mandated to place emphasis on “the status and liabilities of government; cash flow position of the government, including specific x-raying on relationship with all banks and financial institutions.” It would also consider “the quantum of public domestic and external debt of government and their deployment; government’s outstanding contractual obligations and its ability to meet such obligations; status of implementation of capital projects; status of budget performance (especially the current budget); and status of IGR and taxes.” Other terms of reference include, “To interface with the outgoing administration for the purposes of smooth hand over/take over. “To receive hand-over documents from ministries, departments and agencies; “To analyse hand-over notes and identify, prioritise important or urgent issues confronting the in-coming government; “Provide brief on civil service reforms carried out in the past seven years; workforce of core ministries, departments and agencies; recruitment/career appointments made and staff disposition records for the past four years. “Provide brief on pension funds administration; note record of outstanding indebtedness on payment of gratuity and allowances to pensioners; and undertake a preliminary assessment of measures/framework used in tackling them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 