Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigerian Institute of Building has inducted 83 graduates from the Department of Building of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife and the Federal University of Technology, Akure. The President of NIOB, Mr Kunle Awobodu, said it was the first induction ceremony for the building graduates of the institutions into the graduate grade of the NIOB. Awobodu, who was represented by the 3rd Vice President, NIOB, Bimbo Kolade, at the induction, stated that it would enable the fresh graduates to stay focused in life by introducing them to building practices. According to him, it will also help to avoid deviation into areas they were not trained to practise, and mentor them to become gainfully employed. “With the new Lagos State building regulations which stipulate that builders should manage the production process of buildings, there is a need for practical training after academic training so the graduates can live up to expectations in the society by managing building production process appropriately to avoid collapse,” he said. He also charged the inductees to be diligent in their duties while commending the management of the universities for their roles in training the students to a reputable status. The Dean, Faculty of Environmental Design and Management, OAU, Prof. Olubola Babalola, said the school would ensure that practising members who had not registered with the institute but were domiciled in the faculty would be registered to enhance the growth of the NIOB. The Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, FUTA, Prof. Deji Ogunsemi, who represented the Vice Chancellor of the university, said the management of the school was prepared to partner the NIOB to improve the lot of builders. He said the university was proud of the building department which he said produced nine first-class graduates in the 2018/2019 academic year. The Registrar of the NIOB, Fatimoh Osho, urged the inductees to be focused and make adequate preparation for the institute’s examination and interview. plastic. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com