’Femi Asu A global credit rating agency, Moody’s Investors Service, has lowered the outlook on Nigerian government’s ratings to negative from stable, saying the country’s public finances are increasingly fragile in a sluggish growth environment. The agency said on Wednesday that the negative outlook reflected its view of increasing risks to the government’s fiscal strength and external position. It said already weak government finances would likely weaken further, given an extremely narrow revenue base and persistently sluggish growth that hinders fiscal consolidation. Moody’s said, “As pressures mount, there is a risk that the government resorts to increasingly opaque and costly options to finance a moderate but rising debt burden. “Moreover, vulnerability to an adverse change in capital flows is building in light of Nigeria’s increasing reliance on foreign investors to fund the country’s foreign exchange reserves.” Moody’s affirmed the B2 long-term local and foreign currency issuer ratings, the B2 foreign currency senior unsecured ratings, and the (P)B2 foreign currency senior unsecured Medium Term Notes programme rating. It said the decision to affirm the rating at B2 recognised a combination of credit strengths including the country’s large and diversified economy supported by vast oil and gas endowments, notwithstanding persistent credit weaknesses. The agency maintained Nigeria’s country risk ceilings at their current levels: foreign currency bond ceiling at B1, foreign currency deposit ceiling at B3, and local currency bond and deposit ceilings at Ba1. According to Moody’s, the increasing fragility of Nigeria’s public finances is evident in the greater reliance by the government on financing from the Central Bank of Nigeria over the last three years to cover persistently large fiscal deficits, with CBN cash advances reaching 2.5 per cent of GDP on a net basis at the end of September 2019, in addition to government debt instruments held by the CBN worth 1.4 per cent of GDP. It said, “In particular, CBN advances are more expensive than debt funded on the domestic capital market as the CBN applies a penalty rate on top of its monetary policy rate currently at 13.5 per cent. “Moody’s expects general government revenues to remain very low at around eight per cent of GDP until 2022, despite measures such as the VAT rate increase to 7.5 per cent from five per cent in 2020. Consequently, debt affordability will remain weak, with general government interest payments at around 25 per cent of revenues in the next few years.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   