Etim Ekpimah The police have arraigned one Babatunde Owoeye, 40, before the Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State for defrauding one Ibrahim Yusuf of N850,000. According to the police, Owoeye had obtained money in tranches from Yusuf under the pretext of procuring for him visa to the United Arab Emirates or the United States of America. The accused pleaded not guilty to the three counts of felony, obtaining money under false pretences and stealing preferred against him. Narrating his ordeal to the court presided over by Mrs O. O. Akingbesote, Yusuf said he first remitted N100,000 for the UAE visa to Owoeye, who presented himself as a travel agent. Yusuf noted that Owoeye told him that the UAE visa was no longer available and that his boss would arrange a US visa for him subject to further payment. He stated, “I was asked to continue sending money to him until he would go to the US Embassy in Lagos. Later, he told me that he and his boss would need to visit the US Embassy in Abuja. “They asked me to send them N50,000 as airfare to Abuja. On the date of the departure for Abuja, Owoeye’s boss and I were at the MM2 for almost five hours. They told me that the money for the airfare to Abuja was not credited to his account and so we could not go. “And this was how the whole fraud went on, but they made me to continue sending money to them.” The prosecutor, Mrs Rachael Williams, said the offences were punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015. The charges read in part, “That you, Babatunde Owoeye, sometime in 2010 around 9.30am at No. 23 Sowonuols Street, Keke, Agege, Lagos State, within the Ikeja Magisterial District, did conspire with others at large to obtain money under false pretences from one Ibrahim Yusuf. “That you, and others now at large, also obtained the sum of N850,000 from one Ibrahim Yusuf under false pretences of helping him to procure UAE; or USA visa and ticket, knowing same to be false.” According to the prosecutor, Owoeye and his friends also stole the sum of N850,000 from the victim under false pretences. The offences were said to be contrary to and punishable under sections 287, 314 and 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The presiding magistrate adjourned proceedings till January 27, 2020, for the continuation of trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 