Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Federal Government has said that the new UNIDO Country Programme (2018-2022) will help Nigeria to achieve Inclusive and sustainable industrial development. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, said this during a partnership round-table meeting organised by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, and the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, in collaboration with UNIDO, in Abuja. The event was attended by the governors of Abia and Kebbi states, members of the diplomatic community; representatives from various states of the federation; local and international finance institutions and the organised private sector. Adebayo noted that the new UNIDO Nigeria Country Programme aligned with the Federal Government’s current economic and industrialisation priorities and agenda. He said, “We want to commend UNIDO for its sustained efforts in supporting Nigeria’s industrialisation drive. “The Federal Government of Nigeria recognises UNIDO as a reliable partner which has continued to support the country’s efforts towards achieving inclusive and sustainable industrial development. “The new UNIDO Nigeria country programme, which comprises nine pragmatic areas, is in alignment with the Federal Government’s economic diversification and industrial development agenda. “We believe that the full implementation of the new Country Programme will help Nigeria to achieve inclusive and sustainable industrial development.” The Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, United Nations System in Nigeria, Mr Edward Kallon, stressed the importance of industrialisation as a critical tool for poverty reduction, job creation and economic prosperity. Kalon said, “The trajectory for inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development in Nigeria and Africa can only be possible with industrialisation.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 