Sola Shittu, Benin The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Sunday disclosed that he was warned to be wary of his deputy, Philip Shaibu and the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, after he was inaugurated as governor. The governor, who spoke at a praise and worship night to mark Shaibu’s 50th birthday, however, said there was no internal rancour in his administration because himself, Shaibu and Ogie were driven by the same values. He said the three of them aligned easily in taking decisions because they shared the same thoughts and values. He said, “Once I made the decision of picking him (Shaibu) as my running mate, I didn’t have peace. People said I was finished and have been set up. They said I should not eat or drink in my office when I am with him and Ogie. “I was clear in my mind. I do not see how we would have succeeded in doing the things we have done without him. “For him, it is about Edo people. What I find unique about him is that he is not driven by materialism. He is in the struggle not for himself or his family.” Obaseki described Shaibu as a die-hard loyalist who, he said, staked his life for the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole. Apparently responding to the allegation by Oshiomhole that Shaibu betrayed him, the governor said his deputy was rather betrayed when the person he looked up to was unraveled as unreal. Ogie on his part said he met the deputy governor during the struggle to free the people of the state from the godfathers. He said, “They call us twin brothers but we are now three. We are getting stronger every day. Shaibu is a man you can trust. He is a man of conviction. He has given everything for our state. “It is unfortunate that those who we sacrificed a lot for to keep in office are now on the other side. Will they come back to appreciate the price that was paid for them?” On his part, Shaibu promised to continue to live by those values and vowed to stand by Obaseki. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  