Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The police have arraigned four persons before the Lagos State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ikeja for allegedly assaulting and detaining a police officer on legal duty. It was gathered that the defendants, Kujembola Oluwashina, Kola Afolabi, Alade Adeyinka and Toyin Obide, detained the officer when he went to their company, Edge Base Technology, to arrest one of the employees, who failed to honour police invitation in a case of fraud and stealing. The police prosecutor, Ezekiel Ayorinde, told the court that the defendants and others still at large on November 18, 2019, in their office prevented the policeman from arresting the suspect, beat him up and locked him in a room. He added that the defendants conducted themselves in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by beating, obstructing and detaining the officer attached to the Area ‘F’ Police Command, Ikeja, from performing his duty. Ayorinde further told the court that when the officer was freed by the defendants, he came back with his colleagues to arrest the defendants, while the others escaped. The defendants were arraigned on four counts bordering on conspiracy, breach of the peace, assault and obstructing a police officer from performing his duty. They pleaded not guilty to the charges. The offences, according to the prosecutor, contravene sections 164, 117, 174 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The presiding magistrate, B. O. Osunsanmi, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N200,000 each with two sureties, adding that the sureties must be gainfully employed and show evidence of two years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. She adjourned the matter till February 17, 2020, for trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   