Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed sadness over the demise of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu. Uwajumogu, who represented Imo North Senatorial District at the Senate on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress died on Wednesday in Abuja. He was one of the few APC senators from the South-East geopolitical zone. The Speaker, who described the late Uwajumogu as a committed lawmaker who put in his best for the country, said the senator represented his people with absolute dedication to the highest good. In a condolence message issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said, “I received with sadness, news of the death of Senator Benjamin Chukwuemeka Uwajumogu. He was a kind gentleman. He was courteous to all who met him. He was kind to friends and strangers alike, and he gave himself generously to those in need. “His public service, from his time in the Imo State House of Assembly as a member, and later as Speaker of the Assembly, through to his service in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, was never about personal ambition for its own sake. “He was a man of the people, who served for the people and now, has left a legacy which the rest of us must emulate and surpass.” Meanwhile, there was confusion at the House of Representatives on Thursday over adjournment of plenary in honour of the deceased. Gbajabiamila, who presided over Wednesday’s plenary, had adjourned sitting till Friday. The Votes and Proceedings of the day, as issued by the Media Office of the Speaker, read, “The House at 15:21pm adjourned plenary to Friday, December 20, 2019, by 11am, following a motion for adjournment moved by the acting (Majority) Leader, Peter Akpatason, and seconded by the Deputy Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   