Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has maintained that he will not install his successor in 2023, adding that only God will determine who will succeed him. Wike, who explained that planning to plant a successor would amount to being selfish, called on those interested in the governorship position in the next dispensation to come out and inform the people of the state. The governor spoke on Sunday during the thanksgiving service of the lawmaker representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District, Senator Barinada Mpigi, at the Saint Cyprian’s Anglican Church, Koroma Town, Tai Local Government Area of the state. He said, “I will not install my successor. It is God that will determine who will succeed me.  Only God has the power to install my successor. However, I will fervently pray that my party succeeds in 2023. “The insistence to plant a successor is mainly for selfish reasons. Everyone with the right capacity should come forward to tell Rivers people why they should vote him or her. Only God has the power to enthrone my successor in 2023.” Wike described himself as the luckiest politician that was assisted by God to overcome the onslaught of federal might during the 2019 elections. READ ALSO: Why Kogi is experiencing increased armed robbery, kidnap —Govt The governor described Mpigi as a dedicated politician, who worked hard to achieve results. In his remarks, Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, who was represented by Senator Sandy Onoh, described Mpigi as a potent force for Ogoni, Rivers State and the South-South. Former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, described Mpigi as a trustworthy politician, would not swerve in the face of pressure. Ndume praised Wike for being a courageous politician, who worked for the people, no matter the pressure. Mpigi thanked God for his mercies and for consistent political victories. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 