Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has said that for Nigeria to enjoy the benefits of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, the issue of quality of products must be given priority. The Director-General, SON, Osita Aboloma, said this at the AfCFTA National forum organised by the Economic Commission for Africa in conjunction with the African Union, European Union, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture. A statement from SON on Thursday said the AfCFTA would help to promote the much-needed industrialisation of Nigeria. Aboloma, according to the statement, spoke on the topic “Gearing up for AfCFTA: The critical readiness requirements.” The DG, who was represented by the Director Standards Development, Mrs Chinyere Egwuonwu, said SON had developed quality infrastructure in areas such as laboratories, metrology and accreditation necessary for industrial development and global competiveness. He stated that for Nigeria to further harness the benefits of AfCFTA, SON was harmonising standards at regional and continental levels to eliminate multiplicity and promote seamless trade within Africa. He said, “This is to ensure that Nigeria takes off at the blast of the whistle, so that we are not left behind in the race for the African market share. This is because we have all it takes to grow the nation’s economy through the trading of commodities that are competitive and of good quality in markets within the continent.” The objective of the forum was to analyse Nigeria’s preparedness in trading with other African countries under the AfCFTA in order to impact positively on the growth of the nation’s economy through industry and commerce. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    