While banks’ credit to the economy rose to N22.61tn, the loan to deposit ratio dropped to 61.9 per cent in October, NIKE POPOOLA and IFEANYI ONUBA write The total credit to the economy from Deposit Money Banks as of the end of October rose to N22.61tn, the Central Bank of Nigeria has said. The apex bank gave the figure in its economic report for November which was released on Friday. According to the report, the N22.61tn credit from banks to the economy represents an increase of 0.6 per cent over the credit given in September. However, while credit rose marginally to N22.61tn, banks’ loan to deposit ratio dropped by 0.3 per cent to 61.9 per cent. The CBN had on July 3, 2019 directed banks to maintain a minimum LDR of 60 per cent by September 30, 2019. The LDR, which is being reviewed quarterly to improve lending to the real sector, was 58.5 per cent as of the end of May. It has been raised to 65 per cent for the last quarter of this year. The apex bank had said the introduction of the minimum LDR had enhanced credit into key sectors of the economy, adding that by next year, it might be raised to 70 per cent. The CBN report reads in part, “Commercial banks’ credit to the domestic economy rose by 0.6 per cent to N22.26tn at end-October 2019, compared with the level at the end of the preceding month. The development was attributed to the rise in its claims on the private sector. “The loan-to-deposit ratio, at 61.9 per cent, was 0.3 percentage point below the level at the end of the preceding month and was lower than the maximum ratio of 80 per cent by 18.10 percentage points.” In terms of assets, the CBN put the total liquid assets of banks at N14.27tn as at end of October, representing 59.3 per cent of their total current liabilities. The report put the liquidity ratio at this level at 0.9 percentage point, lower than the level at the end of the preceding month. It added, “Total assets and liabilities of commercial banks amounted to N41.42tn at end-October 2019, showing 4.6 per cent increase, compared with the level at the end of the preceding month. “Funds were sourced, mainly, from increase in unclassified liabilities, and the mobilisation of time, savings and foreign currency deposits.” The report said the funds were used mainly to acquire unclassified assets, foreign assets and to boost reserves. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, said the credit conditions in the banking system had improved, supported by the apex bank’s new policy measures announced in June 2019, which required banks to maintain a minimum 65 per cent LDR ratio. According to him, banks in the country are now able to recover delinquent loans from customers’ accounts in other banks. Emefiele said the measures had placed Nigerian banks in a much better position towards supporting a stronger economic recovery. This, he added, had increased gross credit by N1.16tn between May and October 2019. On the country’s external reserves, the governor said the bank’s effort at supporting domestic production in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors, among other policies, had continued to encourage foreign exchange inflows into the Nigerian market. According to him, over $60bn worth of transaction had taken place since the inception of the Investors’ and Exporters’ window in April 2017. He said Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves were above $40bn as at October 2019, compared to $23bn in the same period in 2016. He said the Nigerian financial system had become stronger on the back of improving capital buffers and liquidity in the banking system. According to him, industry-wide Capital Adequacy Ratio had increased from 10.2 per cent in December 2017 to 15.5 per cent in September 2019. Emefiele added that the percentage of non-performing loans in the banking sector had reduced from a high of 14.7 per cent in January 2017 to below seven per cent as at October 2019. Speaking on the developments in the country’s economic and financial sector over the past year, and how they affect the macro-economic outlook for 2020, he said in spite of the positive growth the economy experienced, growth had remained slow due to “some structural constraints” in the economy. According to him, the pace of growth, given Nigeria’s growing population, exposed the economy to shocks, such as changes in the oil price, and sentiments in the global financial markets. Disclosing plans by the CBN to support the economic recovery and enable stronger growth for the country’s Gross Domestic Product, Emefiele said that the bank would continue its current tight stance, particularly in view of rising inflation expectations. “Though we will act to appropriately adjust the policy rate in line with unfolding conditions and outlooks, the CBN will continue to ensure that the policy interest rate is delicately set to balance the objectives of price stability with output stabilization,” he explained. Doing a recap of the highlights for 2019, Emefiele recalled that the country’s GDP had remained positive, adding that the positive growth in GDP had been driven by improvements in agriculture, oil and gas, manufacturing and ICT as well as the intervention programmes of the CBN, along with sustained supply of foreign exchange and stability of the naira. He attributed the decline in inflation to the bank’s maintenance of a tighter monetary policy rate at 13.5 per cent, and its efforts at improving local production of key staple items. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 