Peter Dada, Akure The Adekunle Ajasin Universitiy, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State, said it had entered into partnership with an energy firm, Dantata Energy Solution, to generate four megawatts of electricity to supply power to the entire university community. The project, according to the institution, will gulp the sum of $2.5m. The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun, disclosed this while speaking with journalists on the convocation ceremony of the university, in Akure, the state capital. According to him, the institution has been battling with the challenge of epileptic power supply, which is affecting academic activities on the campus. He, however, added that the energy project would proffer a lasting solution to the problem. Ajibefun said, “The university signed a memorandum of understanding with the firm early this year. When the project is completed, it would generate 4 megawatts of electricity. Though the university cannot consume all the 4MW, the excess would be given to our host community. “This project will save us a lot of money because we spend a lot of money on diesel. The money for the project would be raised by the company. I want to tell you that the power problem on the campus would be a thing of the past when the project is completed. “ Ajibefun, who would complete his five-year term as the vice chancellor of the university this month, lamented that insufficiency of funds was a major challenge facing the institution. But he said in spite of the challenge, the school was able to carry out many infrastructural development projects on the campus. Ajibefun called on the alumni of the university and other eminent people in the country to assist the institution financially, saying the university projects should not be left in the hands of the government alone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  