Peter Dada, Akure Gunmen have abducted the wife, daughters and the driver of the traditional ruler of Odigbo in the Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State, Oba Rufus Akinrinmade. It was gathered that the victims were kidnapped on the Ikare-Owo Expressway in Oba Akoko, Akoko South West Local Government Area of the state. The victims are the monarch’s wife, Regina; daughters, Precious and Mercy; and driver, Lateef Abayomi. A source said the victims were travelling to Akungba Akoko when the hoodlums stopped their vehicle at Oba Akoko and dragged them out of the car and marched them into the bush and from there to an unknown destination. The traditional ruler, who confirmed the incident to our correspondent on Tuesday, said the abductors had contacted the family and demanded N100m as ransom. “They were abducted at the Oba Akoko area on Saturday, and since then, we don’t know their whereabouts. The abductors have contacted us and demanded N100m ransom, but we don’t have that,” he stated. While calling on the government and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to assist in securing the release of his family members, Oba Akinrinmade said he had contacted the state police command on the matter and the police said they were working on it. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident and said investigation had begun into the matter. “We are already working on how to secure the release the victims. I want to assure you that very soon, they will be released unhurt,” Joseph stated. Gunmen had similarly abducted a member of staff of the West African Examinations Council, Mr Gbenga Adebayo, in the same area of Oba Akoko on the Owo-Ikare Road. Adebayo’s abductors had reportedly contacted his relatives and demanded N20m ransom. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    