Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The future of investment in Nigeria’s industrial market is uncertain in the short to medium term, given the lack of interest from investors, a new report has said. Commercial property services company, Broll Nigeria, in its second half of 2019 report, said investment appetite in the country’s industrial sector remained low in the period under review, mainly due to policy challenges and infrastructure gaps including road and housing. According to the report, infrastructure within Nigeria has been neglected, under-invested and poorly maintained. This, it noted, raised doubts about the effectiveness of new industrial parks in transforming the markets. “Policies have yielded inefficient and ineffective outcomes which have pulled the sector backward rather than forward, bringing about reduced capacity utilisation as well as stifled investment in the sector,” the report said. It added that as was the case with the manufacturing sector, the logistics market had been underperforming due to infrastructural, human capital and technological gaps. According to Broll, Nigeria’s logistics industry was ranked 110th in the world in the 2018 World Bank Logistics Performance Index, behind its regional peers South Africa at 33, Kenya at 68 and Benin at 76. The report stated that Nigeria’s industrial market had been mainly characterised by lower grade stand-alone warehouses that were tenant-serviced. It added, “The few modern industrial complexes which exist are owner-occupied by fast-moving consumer goods companies that have invested significant amounts of capital to upgrade their manufacturing and logistics premises. “A number of industrial facilities have come onto the market, following the country’s current difficult economic, policy and regulatory conditions. This has resulted in increased vacancy rates which prompt existing landlords to look for alternative uses for their industrial facilities, one of which is the re-configuration of industrial space for office use.” It explained that given the challenging economic and policy environment, as well as the ongoing ratification of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement, it was likely that manufacturing and industrial companies could opt to move to countries with better infrastructure and more ease of doing business. “This means that a number of industrial facilities in Nigeria could come onto the market as these companies offload their assets and look to other markets,” the report noted. It however said that occupiers and investors in the sector remained keen on industrial facilities that met global standards, adding that the segment of the market might not take off if the gap between current market norms and investor expectations did not shrink. Broll explained that in the second half of 2019, the Federal Government approved the establishment of seven industrial parks to support the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan of 2014. It however stated that even though this was a step in the right direction, with poor infrastructure and lack of investment, these economic zones had not done much to spur economic activities in the regions where they were located. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com