Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The embattled acting Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission, Azuka Azinge, has handed over the affairs of the commission to the Director, Incorporated Trustee at the commission, Hajiya Saratu Shafii. Azuka, according to sources at the commission, did the handover on Monday in Abuja. The decision to hand over followed an order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal that Azinge should be suspended as the acting Registrar-General of the CAC. The CCT said she was being charged based on an “alleged infraction of asset declarations.” The CCT said the order suspending Azinge was issued on December 24, 2019, by the Umar Danladi-led three-member tribunal based on an ex parte application by the Federal Government, through the Code of Conduct Bureau. The ex parte application was earlier filed before the CCT by the CCB on December 17. The CCT’s order read in part, “That defendant/respondent step aside as the acting Registrar General of Corporate Affairs Commission over allegation of contravening the provisions of Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act CAP C1 LFN 2004, pending the hearing and determination of motion on notice dated the 17th day of December 2019.” The tribunal had directed the Minister of Trade and Industry and the Chairman of the Board of Corporate Affairs Commissions to execute the suspension order pending the hearing and the determination of the motion on notice. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, as he was not officially permitted to comment on the matter, said Azinge handed over to Shafii in compliance with the order of the CCT. When contacted, the spokesman for the CAC, Moses Adaguusu, said he would find out about the matter and get back to our correspondent. But he was yet to get back as at the time (7pm) of filing the report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com