John Ameh, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday asked the Governor of Nasarawa State, Mr Abdullahi Sule, to work hard to deliver on his mandate as a governor elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Buhari said this was necessary because Nigerians would judge the governor by his performance many years after he might have left office. The President’s call was contained in a message to congratulate Sule on his 60th birthday. He said, “Life is the most invaluable gift from God and we should use our birthday to thank our Creator and reflect on life, with humility.” “I urge you to make good governance your watchword because your good performance will be the yardstick by which your tenure will be judged for years to come. I wish you happy birthday and more prosperous years ahead.” A statement by presidential spokesman, Mr Garba Shehu, said Buhari wished Sule “many more years and good health,’’ advising him “not to rest on his oars because the task of fulfilling campaign promises is even greater than the campaign efforts.” Buhari sent similar greetings to foremost advertising practitioner, Mr Biodun Sobanjo, who turned 75 years old. The retired Major General praised the Chairman of Troyka Holdings for his “many years of lofty achievements, recognitions and awards, following his investments in an integral part of the economy that has created jobs, equipped many with skills for start-ups and attracted the global spotlight.” In a statement by his media aide, Mr Femi Adesina, Buhari “felicitates with friends, family members and professional associates of Sobanjo, who carefully and painstakingly explored advertising as a profession and business, and diligently mentored many to follow his steps by creating a learning hub and supporting academic institutions with ideas and facilities.” It added, “As Sobanjo turns 75, the President believes his wealth of experience and knowledge will continue to inspire more people into entrepreneurship, especially in the creative industry which has turned more dynamic and vibrant with many opportunities for the adventurous. “President Buhari prays that the almighty God will grant the advertising expert longer life, good health and more wisdom to keep investing in the country and her citizens.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    