’Femi Asu Energy Works Technology Limited, a subsidiary of Nestoil Group, says it has executed the first steel cut for the delivery of four major pressure vessels for the Ikike oil field project being developed by Total E&P Nigeria Limited. The Ikike field is located on Oil Mining Lease 99 offshore Nigeria, with Total being the operator with a 40 per cent stake. EWT said the first steel cut ceremony held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Thursday, marking the commencement of engineering, procurement and fabrication of open drain vessel, closed drain vessel, pig launcher and pig receiver. According to a statement, the project was contracted to EWT by Total E&P Nigeria Limited, and is a major feat in the execution of the OML 99 asset. The Group Managing Director, Nestoil, Dr Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi, said the first steel cut marked the beginning of a highly technical process of procuring the pressure vessels that would service the project and demonstrate the mutually beneficial relationship between EWT and Total. He said Total’s decision to avail EWT another opportunity to demonstrate its capacity as a leading industrial fabrication company was a vote of confidence on the local capacity of indigenous companies in the sector to deliver on complex projects at all times. “This project will surely deepen Nigerian local content implementation by creating huge job opportunities for thousands of people,” Azudialu-Obiejesi said at the ceremony. The General Manager, Ikike Project, Total E&P, Modestus Nwosu, appreciated the technical competence and safety standards of the Nestoil Group and its member companies. He said EWT won the contract strictly on its merit, adding, “EWT shares the same values with Total. We are safety conscious and work with companies that have safety standards; we don’t do business with companies that have poor safety records.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  