Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The immediate-past Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Mohammed Adoke’s request for the intervention of his successor, Abubakar Malami, to facilitate his release from custody in Dubai, the United Arab Emirate, has not yielded any positive result for him, The PUNCH has learnt. Malami and others, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the International Police, the Inspector-General of Police, the Dubai authorities, were said to have shunned the letters which the ex-minster sent to them after his arrest by the INTERPOL in Dubai on November 11, 2019. Saturday PUNCH had reported on November 24, 2019 that Adoke, through the law firm of his lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), had written Malami and the INTERPOL headquarters in Lyon, on November 14,  demanding his release from custody on the grounds that the arrest warrant which triggered his arrest by the INTERPOL had been vacated by the same judge who issued it. Adoke’s letters sent to the various recipients were accompanied with copies of the October 25, 2019 ruling delivered by Justice Danaladi Senchi of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja vacating its earlier warrant of arrest issued against the former minister and others on April 17, 2019. The ex-AGF had, through his lawyers, urged the authorities to act on his letters by forwarding the latest ruling to Dubai as  proof that there was no longer any pending arrest warrant to justify his arrest and continued detention. Ozekhome confirmed to our correspondent on Tuesday, that weeks after sending the letters on behalf of his client, none of the recipients had replied him. “Till now, we have not received any reply from the Attorney-General  of the Federation, the Inspector-General of Police, the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, INTERPOL, the Commissioner of Police of INTERPOL in Abuja, Dubai authorities or from anyone howsoever,” he said. Ozekhome criticised the Nigerian government for “colluding with external forces” to illegally detain its citizen, when it should be protecting the citizen. “It is clear from the statements made by government officials publicly that the government is colluding with external forces, especially the INTERPOL, to unlawfully and illegally detain one of its own citizens outside the shores of Nigeria, when it should be the duty of that government to protect its citizens globally,” Ozekhome said. He maintained that his client’s arrest, in the absence of any valid warrant of arrest violated the provision of Article 3 of the INTERPOL Charter. Asked if Adoke was being granted access to his lawyers in Dubai since his arrest, Ozekhome said, “I don’t know what is happening in Dubai because I have not been able to speak with him. When contacted on Tuesday, the spokesperson for Malami, Dr Umar Gwandu, said he had “no information on the Adoke matter for now.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  