Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja Candidates from Kwara and Kebbi states, who sat for the promotion examinations to fill permanent secretary positions at the federal civil service, failed to meet the requirements as President Muhammadu Buhari approved the names of nine new permanent secretaries on Wednesday. The nine new permanent secretaries were picked from the 48 directors that sat for the final examination, which was an oral interview, held last week Wednesday. The 48 senior officials had earlier emerged successful and were among the 87 candidates that sat for the second examination for applicants held last week Monday. The second examination was on Information and Communication Technology.  All eligible directors had penultimate Thursday sat for the first examination, which was a written test on relevant public service and policy issues. In a circular, dated October 29, 2019 and marked HCSF/CMO/AOD/012/V/24, the acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Yemi-Esan, had announced the decision of government to appoint 11 new permanent secretaries into the federal civil service. The remaining five would emerge from Niger, Borno, Kebbi, Kwara and Ogun states. But when the list was released by the Ag HCSF, new permanent secretaries from Borno, Niger and Ogun were named with Kebbi and Kwara missing out in the list. READ ALSO: FRSC proposes N50,000 penalty for traffic light violations The Director, Communications, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Olawunmi Ogunmosunle, said no candidate from Kwara and Kebbi emerged successful. She said, “The other candidates did not meet the requirements. That was why they could not be promoted. Among the candidates from the other two states, none of them met the requirements. Each states presented many candidates for the exercise but none (from Kwara and Kebbi states) met the requirements for the appointment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 