Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi A ride-hailing platform, Bolt, says it has extended its operations into two more Nigerian cities, Abeokuta and Enugu, in a bid to bring convenient and reliable transportation services closer to its customers during this festive season. Bolt’s Regional Manager for West Africa, Uche Okafor, who stated this, added that demand for ride-hailing services had been growing across Nigeria as public transport was still unreliable and the costs of car ownership had soared. A statement by the firm said with the expansion into Abeokuta and Enugu, Bolt’s network within Nigeria had increased to 11. “Bolt started operating in Nigeria in 2016 in Lagos. And with the launch of Enugu and Abeokuta this month, it will operate in eleven Nigerian cities – Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan, Owerri, Benin, Uyo, Calabar, Port Harcourt, Kano, Enugu and Abeokuta,” the firm stated. It quoted Okafor as saying, “Ride-hailing services like Bolt make it possible for more people to enjoy the convenience and safety of getting from one place to another, without the costs of car ownership or the inconvenience of public transport.” According to him, the transportation app has been successful in every city where it has launched since it commenced operations in Nigeria in 2016, making the firm to grow exponentially year on year. He said Bolt had facilitated entrepreneurship opportunities for Nigerians who would otherwise have been included in the country’s unemployment statistics, with thousands of drivers now using the Bolt platform to start their own businesses, earning an income and supporting their families on a flexible schedule. “The ride-hailing sector has stimulated unprecedented innovation, growth and job creation in a new industry that is just four years old in Nigeria,” he said. Okafor noted that Bolt remained committed to the Nigerian market and that it would grow its footprints to more towns and cities across the country, making it possible for more people to benefit from ride-hailing services, either riders seeking cost-effective convenience or drivers seeking business opportunities. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com