Oladimeji Ramon The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria has faulted the suspension of the Managing Director of the Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading, Dr Marilyn Amobi, by the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman. HURIWA, in a statement on Monday by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, and its National Media Affairs Director, Zainab Yusuf, contended that Amobi’s unilateral suspension by Mamman was illegal. According to the group, the minister, in suspending Amobi, took the laws into his own hands. The statement said, “HURIWA has observed that the Hon. Minister of Power ordered Dr Marilyn Amobi to “step down with immediate effect” as Managing Director of NBET, “as a result of the myriad of complaints against her.” This was widely reported by the news media on December 24, 2019. “We are unable to discern the motive of the Hon. Minister. However, one thing that is crystal clear when viewed against the statutory regime for the regulation of the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry is that the actions are wrong and unsupportable under the laws of the land. “NBET’s Articles of Association show that 4,000,000 of NBET’s shares are held by the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (“MOFI”) while 16,000,000 of the shares are held by the Bureau of Public Enterprises. “Consequently, while MOFI holds 20 per cent of the shares, BPE holds 80 per cent of the shares. “NBET’s shareholding structure is in line with section 9 of the Electricity Sector Regulatory Act, 2005, which provides that the shares of successor companies after incorporation shall be held jointly in the name of MOFI and the BPE for and on behalf of the FGN.” Besides the ownership structure, HURIWA argued that the minister had no power to suspend the NBET boss. “There is no law empowering any minister to give directives of any nature to NBET. Further, NBET’s management is not statutorily subject to any duty of complying with any ministerial directive or order. “Notwithstanding that the minister is one of the seven board members of NBET neither the Act nor NBET’s Articles of Association empowers the minister to unilaterally supervise NBET. “In the absence of any authorisation from the board, it is an improper and unlawful exercise of the powers of NBET’s board for the minister to unilaterally order the removal of NBET’s Managing Director. “If the Act establishing NBET intended to bring NBET within the minister’s supervisory compass, the lawmakers would have expressly and unambiguously done so. It is a fairly settled rule of statutory interpretation that clear and unambiguous words in a statute should be given their ordinary meaning when construing. “The Managing Director is answerable to NBET’s board and not to individual members of the board. “Accordingly, where a member of the board has any concerns as to the management of NBET or the performance of its objectives, the proper and lawful course of action is for the board member to channel his concerns through the board. He is not under the law establishing NBET allowed to unilaterally take decisions on NBET. He is not a supervising minister of NBET,” the statement added. HURIWA, who stated that  the Minister of Power was not the chairman of NBET board, queried why he took the laws into his own hands. The statement added, “It is totally unenlightened to respond to complaints that may turn out to be unfounded. In the case of NBET, it is tragic because there is a regulatory body, the NERC, that is saddled with the responsibility of a regulator in the power sector. The lawful thing to do is to refer the issue to the NERC for its investigation and recommendation and not to come to a conclusion without investigation. “The action of the minister has further devalued Nigeria in the eyes of investor s and all those seeking to participate in the power industry. “No discerning investor will ever seek to participate in an industry bedeviled with such arbitrary and unlawful actions. The Hon. Minister for Power is advised to reverse this condemnable action of his to save Nigeria from further embarrassment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com