Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki Igbo youths, under the aegis of the Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders, have described the 2023 presidential campaign posters of the Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, and the Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, as an embarrassment to Ndigbo. The youths said the South-East geopolitical zone was interested in the office of the President, and not Vice-President in 2023. The coalition, in a statement signed by its President-General, Goodluck Ibem and the Secretary-General, Kanice Igwe, on Monday, said, “We are totally disappointed and alarmed to see the 2023 campaign posters of Governor Emeka Ihedioha as a running mate to Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, when the South-East zone is seeking for the office of the President.” It added that it was more disappointing that, while other governors of the South-East were busy working for the interest of the zone, the Imo governor was allegedly scheming ahead of 2023, more so as “Tambuwal’s running mate, not even as presidential candidate.” Governors Tambuwal and Ihedioha’s posters were reportedly seen in major cities across the country, as presidential and vice-presidential candidates, come 2023. The statement read in part, “This action of Governor Ihedioha is a betrayal of the highest order. He is not interested in the interest of the zone; he is only interested in his personal interest and gain. What a shame. “When we saw these posters in major cities of the country, we thought that he was not the one responsible for the posters, but up till now, we have not seen any rebuttal from his office. “This simply means, the circulation of the posters has his backing and support. This action by Ihedioha is totally against the collective interest of the South-East zone and it must stop forthwith.” According to the youths, some governors who assumed office on the same day as Ihedioha have inaugurated tangible projects and are still working day and night for the benefit of their states. “Since he assumed office on May 29, 2019, he has not inaugurated any project, nor has he embarked on any meaningful project for the betterment of the people. “We call on Imolites to rise up to the occasion and ask their governor what he is doing with all the monthly allocations, internally generated revenue, 13 percentage derivation funds and other funds coming into the state’s coffers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com