Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The arrest of the immediate-past Attorney-General of the Federation and Minster of Justice, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, violated the provisions of the enabling law of the International Police Organisation, his lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), told a court in Abuja on Monday. Ozekhome told Justice Danladi Senchi of the Jabi Division of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, that the arrest and continued detention of his client up till Monday was illegal as there was no valid arrest warrant backing it. He said this when an application seeking the removal of Adoke’s name from the $1.1bn Malabu Oil scam was scheduled to come up for hearing. Adoke, who had been on self-exile after he left office as the AGF in 2015, was arrested in Dubai by the International Police Organisation on November 11  over the pending Malabu Oil charges which had been instituted against him and others as far back as 2017. Upon an application by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, which filed the charges, Justice Senchi, on April 11, this year, issued an arrest warrant against Adoke and the other defendants for not being available for arraignment. On October 25, the same judge set aside the arrest warrant after Adoke and his co-defendants challenged its validity. Ozekhome informed Justice Senchi on Monday that Adoke had travelled to Dubai for a medical check-up after the arrest warrant was vacated only for him to be arrested based on the vacated arrest warrant. He said, “When his (Adoke’s) warrant of arrest was vacated on October 25, he felt he should go for medical checkup in Dubai. “He was arrested there based on the earlier court warrant of arrest.” He faulted the arrest by INTERPOL. He said the arrest contravened Chapter 3 of the Interpol Article because the warrant which formed the basis for the arrest had been vacated. He said he had written all relevant authorities, including the EFCC, the incumbent AGF, Abubakar Malami (SAN), the UAE authorities and Interpol, intimating them on the need to release his client in the light of the developments, but to no avail. “It is the duty of the AGF to ensure that the rights of every Nigerian citizen are protected,” he added. On his fresh application for the removal of his client’s name from the Malabu Oil charges, Ozekhome said it had been served on the EFCC but the commission had yet to file its reply. The EFCC’s prosecuting counsel, Offem Uket, promised to file and serve his reply to the application by Tuesday. The judge then adjourned the case till Wednesday for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   