Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The Ogbakiri community in the Emohia Local Government Area of Rivers State has denied claims in some quarters that its youths were responsible for the damage to properties and looting of shops during a violent protest over the murder of Miss Charity Ohaka. Charity was tied to a brick and thrown inside a well close to her residence. The incident had angered some persons, who took to the streets and began to break windscreens and glasses of vehicles parked on the road. But the Youth President of the Ogbakiri community, Gift Amadi, on Saturday dismissed the claim that youths from the area were involved in the violent protest on Sunday, November 24, 2019, in Rumuosi, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state after Charity’s corpse was recovered from the well. The youth leader explained that contrary to the claim, it was hoodlums in the area that took advantage of the unpleasant situation to achieve their selfish aims by looting and destroying properties of residents. Amadi charged communities to support security agencies by always policing their areas to avert crimes. He stated, “Rumuosi is not a rural area; it is an urban area, where different people reside. On that fateful day, when the body of Charity Ohaka was found in a well in Rumuosi, seeing the mood of the crowd, I immediately addressed them and warned them not to take the law into their own hands. “I told them that even if they destroy anything, Charity’s life could not be restored. But criminals in the area took advantage of the situation and went on the rampage, destroying properties on sight. I think people were misinformed about the situation.” Amadi noted that Ogbakiri youths were in good terms with the Rumuosi community, adding that they were law-abiding and would never take the law into their own hands. On his part, spokesperson of Ohaka family, Mr Isaac Ohaka, said the interest of the family was that justice should prevail and the killers of their daughter should be arrested and prosecuted. “Our basic interest is how to attain justice; we want those, who perpetrated this crime, arrested and prosecuted,” Isaac stressed. However, the Rivers State Police Command said it had arrested two suspects in connection with the gruesome murder of Charity. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  