Afeez Hanafi with agency report At least nine lives have been lost in separate road accidents in Ogun, Niger and Kaduna states, while 14 persons escaped death with varying degrees of injury. It was learnt that four deaths were recorded in two of the four crashes recorded in different parts of Ogun. The first fatal crash involved two vehicles in the Mowe end of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Ogun State. Out of the five occupants of the vehicles, a death was recorded while an injured victim was rescued to BY Faith Hospital, Mowe, for medical attention. The accident was blamed on excessive speeding. Around 1pm on Thursday at Tollgate, Ota, on the Abeokuta-Lagos Expressway, five persons were also trapped in a crash involving a truck and a motorcycle. City Round gathered that one of the victims died on the spot while four others were rushed to the General Hospital, Ota. The Federal Road Safety Corps Sector Commander in Ogun State, Mr Clement Oladele, who confirmed the crashes, said two of the victims later gave up the ghost at the hospital. He said, “The suspected cause of the crash was brake failure. The truck that caused the crash was conveying cosmetic products when the brakes failed and it rammed into a Bajaj motorbike nearby conveying two female victims who were just disembarking from the bike. “During a routine hospital follow-up on the victims, it was discovered that the motorcyclist and a woman died from injuries sustained from the crash, bringing the deaths to three. “The sum of N72,930 recovered from the scene has been handed over to the victims’ relations.” Oladele said in another accident on the Ijebu-Ode-Ore Expressway, near Ososa Bridge, seven persons were involved and three of them sustained injuries. He said the injured victims were rescued to Ore-Ofe Hospital, Ijebu-ode, adding that one of the vehicles plunged into the Ososa River while another was stuck in the railings of the bridge. Commiserating with families of the deceased, the sector commander described the accidents as avoidable, urging motorists to drive cautiously especially as traffic started building up as Yuletide approaches. “Motorists should note that the areas where diversions were removed on the Lagos -Ibadan Expressway are still construction zones and they should therefore maintain the stipulated 50 km/per hour maximum speed limit as well as refrain from overtaking till they are clearly out of construction zones. Violators are liable to prosecution,” he added. In the Niger crash which occurred in Laboxhi village along Mokwa-Bida Road, the FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Mr Joel Dagwa, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Friday in Minna that the accident involved a Daf Trailer with the number plate SHR 317 XA and an unregistered commercial bus. Dagwa said the accident involved three people; two males and one female, and that about N74,680 was recovered from the victims. He said the corpses of the victims had been deposited at the Mokwa General Hospital morgue, while the money recovered was handed over to the relations of the victims. He blamed the crash on dangerous overtaking. The sector commander said the corps would continue to monitor road users to guard against overloading and dangerous driving. “We have since embarked on aggressive patrols across all major highways to ensure that road users adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations to avoid road accidents during and after the Christmas and New Year festivities,” he said. In Kaduna, a trailer loaded with cows on Friday lost control and crashed around Lord Lugard Roundabout in the Kaduna metropolis killing two, while seven others were injured. Confirming the incident, Hafiz Mohammed, the FRSC sector commander in the state, told NAN that the accident was caused by speeding and fatigue, adding that the seven rescued victims were rushed to the hospital where one of them died. “It took combined efforts of the FRSC, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and Kaduna State Traffic Law Enforcement Authority to remove the corpses and deposit them at Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital morgue,” he said. The sector commander said the trailer was towed to Motorpol Office Kaduna, adding that some of the items recovered included N15,840 belonging to one of the deceased. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    