John Ameh, Abuja The Serving Overseer, Citadel Global Community Church (formerly Latter Rain Assembly), Pastor Tunde Bakare, was sighted at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday. The 65-year-old pastor rushed in for a meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), about 3pm. He did not speak with State House correspondents after the less-than-40-minutes meeting. The former Deeper Life Bible Church and Redeemed Christian Church of God pastor only promised to return to the Villa again in January for another meeting, before zooming off in his car. In 2011, the vocal tele-evangelist was Buhari’s running mate in that year’s presidential election, which was won by the then sitting Peoples Democratic Party President, Mr Goodluck Jonathan. Buhari and Bakare had contested the poll on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change. It’s unclear whether Monday’s visit had political undertones. In September, Bakare had announced to his congregation that he would be Nigeria’s next President in 2023, describing himself as one born to be President. Bakare had said, “Take it to the mountain top if you have never heard it before. I am saying it to you this morning, in the scheme of things, as far as politics of Nigeria is concerned, President Buhari is number 15 and yours sincerely is number 16. I never said that to you before; I want to let you know it this morning; nothing can change it, in the name of Jesus. He (Buhari) is number 15; I am number 16. “To this end was I born and for this purpose came I into the world. I have prepared for this for 30 years. When he (Buhari) chose to run in 2019, he is still number 15, when he steps out, I step in. “His assignment is that of Moses, to take Nigeria to River Jordan, but he can’t cross it. It will take a Joshua to go to the other side and begin to distribute the resources to the people of this nation.” In 2023, power is expected to shift to the South, where the South-West, one of the strongholds of the ruling All Progressives Congress, is said to be in line to produce the presidential candidate. READ ALSO: You risk being jailed, ex-AG warns Ibadan sacked obas The Ogun State-born pastor has yet to declare his membership of the APC. One of the names regularly mentioned to be likely presidential APC candidate is the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He too has yet to make his rumoured presidential interest formal. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com