Nike Popoola Electronic payment providers must embrace increased partnerships and utilisation of data analytics to sustain the triple digit growth recorded under the Payment System Vision 2020. Payment experts made this submission while speaking at the 2019 retreat of the Committee of E-Business Industry Heads in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Experts who spoke at the retreat with the theme, ‘Payment 2020plus: The next frontiers of payments’, include Chief Digital Officer, Polaris Bank, Dele Adeyinka; Deputy Managing Director, Nigeria Interbank Settlement System, Niyi Ajao; Chief Executive Officer, Migo Technology Services, Nkechi Nwoka; and  Director International Business, Eastcompeace China, Kevin Chen. Others are Principal, Mastercard Advisory, sub-Saharan Africa, Mr Bola Asiru; Technology and Transformation Leader, Deloitte West Africa, Wole Oyeniran; and Chief Digital Officer, Sterling Bank, Olayinka Oni. The special guests at the retreat were Secretary to the Ogun State Government, Tokunbo Talabi; and Special Adviser to Ogun State Governor on Youth Empowerment, Lekan Olude. Talabi in his goodwill message commended the huge progress recorded in the Nigerian payment landscape. He, however, noted the concomitant rising risk of cyber fraud and called for collaboration to tackle cyber fraud. He stated that this was critical to ensuring that the gains recorded in the payment space were not eroded. Talabi also called for collaboration with government on key policies and initiatives to ensure payments were adopted in the lifestyle of the average Nigerian. In a presentation titled, ‘Review of the evolution of the payments in Nigeria between 2000 and 2019,’ Adeyinka noted that the industry achieved a compound annual growth rate of 120 per cent in value of electronic payment transactions during the 19 years period, driven majorly by collaboration between the regulators and stakeholders. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com