Peter Dada, Akure Commercial banks in the four local government areas in the Akoko area of Ondo State were shut on Wednesday over robbery scare. It was gathered that in the four council areas — Akoko North East, Akoko North-West, Akoko South-East and Akoko South-West — the banks were turning back their customers following the instructions not to operate. It was also gathered that the development was not unconnected with the information that armed robbers were planning to attack the banks. A bank official who craved anonymity disclosed that there was a signal and security alerts that armed robbers were planning to attack banks in the area, hence the directive to close down. He said, “Initially, we had hoped to start operation for the day; but suddenly, security information reached us that the bandits were around, so we did not want to take the risk, that’s why we decided to shut down. “It had happened before that the robbers attacked us and we don’t want to experience it again. So, maybe if the coast is clear tomorrow (Thursday), we will open. But we will load our ATMs (Automated Teller Machines) with money so customers can go and withdraw money. People should bear with us.” To this end, some of the customers in the area, particularly those that wanted to deposit money expressed their disappointment over the development, saying it had affected their businesses negatively. A customer, who identified himself as Michael Bello appealed to the security agencies to beef up security in the area as the year was coming to an end. READ ALSO: I sold seven human skulls for N15,000, man confesses in court “It was unfortunate that this is happening in this area but we have to appeal to the government and the security agencies to be up and doing in the area of security of lives and properties in Akoko land,” he stated. In a reaction, the Police Area Commander for Ikare Akoko, the  Assistant Commissioner of Police, Razak Rauf, who confirmed the incident, said his men were not relenting on their efforts to save lives and property. He said the police team was already patrolling all the major roads in the four local government areas while a surveillance team was also on the ground.