Mudiaga Affe The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Lagos State, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, has said the Peoples Democratic Party is not destined to win elections in the state. Balogun, who stated this at the APC secretariat in Ikeja when he received hundreds of defectors from the PDP on Thusday, said the APC was determined to obliterate the PDP from the political map of the state. He said the defectors had decided to join the APC because of the purposeful leadership the party had been giving to people of the state in the last 20 years. Some of the defectors who were given the APC flags were a former Minister of Works and Housing, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, and his son, Moyo: a former PDP leader in Ikeja constituency, Mutiu Okunola; Alhaji Raman Falawe (Lagos Island); Jebe Dayo (Mushin); Adeoye Shamolu (Ojo); Jaiye Agoro (Lagos Mainland); Sukanmi Fabiyi (Apapa); and Arisekola Afeez (Accord Party, Mushin), among others. Balogun, who referred to the new members as eminent Lagosians, said they had all been registered and issued the party cards at their various wards. He said, “We have gathered today to formally receive the PDP leaders that have come to join the APC…Their coming will strengthen our party. Politics is a game of number and since they have come in thousands, they will add to our votes and our strength. No APC member has joined the PDP but they (PDP) have always joined us. They have joined us because of good governance. They all have the potential to be who they want to become in the APC. “The PDP is not destined to win elections in Lagos State. We are determined to obliterate the PDP from the political map of Lagos State. READ ALSO: Ekiti PDP crisis worsens as faction sells party secretariat “APC has its critical development programme for the 21st century economy of the state. We have our 10-point agenda from the beginning. All the governors of the state right from the period of Alliance for Democracy to date have worked through the programme and that has taken us to where we are today and we want to continue to be the leading state in Nigeria and Africa.” Responding shortly after receiving his flag, Okunola said he defected to the APC with his supporters to change the narratives. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 