The Central Bank of Nigeria says it will support the agriculture sector, the Small and Medium Enterprises, and infrastructure development to stimulate the economy. The Deputy Governor (Corporate Services), Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Edward  Adamu, said this during a finance seminar, while speaking on the theme, ‘Galvanising development   finance   and   monetary   policy   for growth.’ “To put this keynote address in proper perspective, it is   pertinent   to   note   that   at  the   Central   Bank   of Nigeria, our approach to stimulating economic development   is   three-pronged,   centered   on agriculture,   micro,   small   and   medium   enterprises and infrastructure,” he said. He noted that the theme   of   the seminar was relevant,   considering   the   evolving interconnectedness   between   development  finance and monetary policy, not only in Nigeria, but in other economies across the world. The bank, he added, had  transcended its core   mandate   of maintaining   monetary,   price   and   financial   system stability, to undertake developmental initiatives with a   view   to   spurring   economic   growth   and   job creation. He mentioned its efforts at these development finance initiatives had helped   to   accelerate   the   actualisation   of   the Federal   Government’s   economic   diversification programme. “Diversifying   our   economic   base presents a more sustainable and stable option,” he said. He said he had the conviction that focusing the  developmental efforts on sectors with inherent potential  for  growth,  employment and accretion to foreign reserves, would enhance the fortune of the Nigerian economy. The CBN increased its lending to the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, through targeted  intervention schemes  such   as the  Anchor Borrowers’ Programme,   Commercial   Agricultural Credit Scheme and the Real Sector Support Facility, he said. He said, “We sought to improve domestic supply of four   commodities (rice,   fish,   sugar,  and   wheat), which   consume   about   N1.3tn   annually   in   our nation’s import bill. “The Anchor Borrowers’ Programme which was launched in November 2015, was designed to build partnerships   between   small   holder   farmers   and reliable large-scale agro-processors, with a view to increasing   agricultural   output,   while   improving access to credit for farmers. “Our targeted focus on the agricultural sector and manufacturing sector was driven by vast opportunities.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 