Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Chief Executive Officer-designate, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, Ade Sun-Basorun, says mid-sized shopping complexes and neighbourhood stores will be key real estate investments that will drive growth in the organised retail sector in Nigeria. He said modern retail in Nigeria accounted for less than 10 per cent of the industry and continued to be significantly underdeveloped. “This situation presents a unique opportunity for real estate developers and investors who can fill the gap by developing smaller neighbourhood malls or strip malls as they are called in the west,” he said. Sun-Basorun, at the recently held West Africa Property Investment Summit in Lagos, said real estate developers and investors needed to harness the opportunities inherent in the country’s organised retail sector. He said the mid-sized developments, which could be as small as 3,000 to 5,000 square metres could conveniently fit into specific neighbourhoods as opposed to the more popular large malls of about 20,000sqm or more that demanded large-scale constructions and often significantly disrupted the lives of neighbourhoods. According to him, purpose-built mid-sized retail outlets sited in neighbourhood areas are able to serve the needs of the local residents while simultaneously offering the similitude of experience that large-scale mall customers crave. “They ease the travel time and stress customers experience in commuting to large malls which are typically located in major city centres and, in addition, are easier to plan and develop, given their smaller sizes,” he added. Sun-Basorun explained that the industry was at a period of accelerated growth that would have a ripple effect on ancillary sectors including real estate. He said, “With an estimated consumer class of 52 million people, the future of organised and modern retail in Nigeria is bright and the only place it can go is up. “The industry is at a defining moment that can be likened to the economic theory called the ‘S curve’ where there would be accelerated roll-out across the country.” He stated that this would be a period for developers to create significant opportunity for investment in commercial real estate. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 