Sammy Dalmeida The commencement of the last quarter of the year is when insurance companies start courting brokers aggressively for participation in their approaching first quarter insurance renewals. It is, yet again, that period of the year that considerable pressure is put on brokers to place and retain business with insurance companies. Most insurance contracts are arranged for 12 months. Despite the existence of a long-term agreement, there is usually a kind of annual review for both the insurer and the client. Therefore, a broker needs a process that ensures that the renewal of each insurance account is dealt with in a timely and efficient way. However, achieving the right level of efficiency in the 2020 insurance renewal cycle may pose some challenges for insurance brokers in Nigeria. On May 20, 2019, the National Insurance Commission, released a circular announcing a new minimum paidup share capital requirements for Nigerian insurance and reinsurance companies. The circular, more or less, prescribed the new minimum parameters concerning the basic financial strength of an Insurer. Giving a 13-month notice, the regulator stated that the new paid-up share capital will be effective from June 30, 2020. The last recapitalisation of insurance and reinsurance companies in Nigeria was in 2005/2007. The new minimum paid-up share capital requirements are shown below: Considering that the successfully recapitalised insurance companies (that would have met the new minimum paid-up share capital requirements) will not be known till June 30, 2020 and by which time all the insurance contracts that will be consummated in January 2020 would have run half-way into their insurance periods, the efficiency of insurance brokers will be required. Brokers will need to rise to the occasion and ensure that the security of their clients’ insurance arrangements for the insurance periods extending beyond June 30, 2020, is not compromised. The way brokers will view the security of insurers, for insurance contracts to be renewed in the first half of 2020, will have a significant impact on their clients and the market. In times like this, brokers are expected to have concerns over the financial security of the underwriters of their clients’ risks. Therefore, a broker’s approach to insurers’ security (in 2020 especially) will be of critical importance. Brokers owe a duty to take reasonable care in assessing the ability and willingness of Insurers to pay claims. Can a broker be held liable, in negligence, for the selection of an insurer with an unpredictable paid-up capital situation? Generally speaking, a broker is deemed not to be liable for the insolvency of an Insurer. To avoid any tough conversations with clients, post-June 2020, it is important that brokers select Insurers for the January to June 2020 insurance period with absolute care and utmost due diligence. Brokers have a general duty of care to apply their expertise to select suitable Insurers for their clients. This duty includes taking reasonable care in assessing the ability and willingness of Insurers to pay claims. They also have to carry out this duty irrespective of what will happen and all brokers have to approach this issue with a degree of circumspection. The pressures on large insurance broking firms may be particularly severe. Brokers are expected to have the relevant skills and knowledge to monitor the solvency of Insurers. Otherwise, brokers would have to rely on a combination of industry reports, their commercial judgment, and their market experience. Signs of insurer’s weakness: The danger signs may look obvious but they always do in hindsight. In reality, brokers face a commercial decision. Most brokers have their methods of Insurers’ security assessment. The large broking firms have a greater duty of care imposed on them due to their size and influence in the market. Over 80 per cent of the Nigerian insurance market is controlled by brokers. The information that should be of interest to brokers would include: the financial information of insurers (as at September 30, 2019), a detailed analysis of their capital structures to ensure the Insurers have sufficient resilience, willingness to pay claims, speed of claims payments, service levels and underwriting flexibility, management reputation, current operating performance and financial flexibility. The insolvency of just one insurance company will reflect poorly on the entire Nigerian insurance industry. Recommending an insurance company that eventually goes insolvent may destroy a broker’s reputation, even if there is no consequent liability. Some clients could sue brokers and such suits could result in very expensive legal defence costs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    