Success Nwogu The Nigerian Supreme Council for Ecclesiastical Affairs and  Nigeria Christian Graduate Fellowship on Saturday differed with the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, over the inclusion of Nigeria in the United States ‘special watch list.’ Abubakar, who is also the  President of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs,   in Kano  on Wednesday denied  reports by the US that Christians were being persecuted in Nigeria. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course organised by the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria at  the Bayero University, Kano, the Sultan told  the Federal Government to debunk the US’ impression about Nigeria. Sultan had said, “It’s a lie to say Christians are persecuted in Nigeria. What an inappropriate reaction to the inclusion of Nigeria in the religion violations list as announced by the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo.” He  dismissed claims made by the Christian Association of Nigeria that Christians were being persecuted in Nigeria. CAN had backed the inclusion of Nigeria by the US on the list of nations  tolerating  religious persecution. But the Secretary, Elders Council, NSCEA,  Prof Funmilayo Adesanya-Davies, and  National President, NCGF, Prof Charles Adisa, in separate statements said while they regarded the Sultan as one of the most respected and educated Nigerians, they disagreed with his position. They also backed  CAN’s position on the issue. Adesanya-Davies said Christians were being persecuted in Nigeria, adding that the US’ position was a good step in the right direction. She stated that it was encouraging the report that the US would be launching an international alliance of countries for religious freedom early 2020. She said, “We believe that if countries like Nigeria agree to work to improve their standing by joining this alliance, it may help turn around the nation’s current negative ranking. Nigeria definitely needs a change, the terrorists have had enough of their time. It is enough. “If the Sultan and the NSCIA are unconcerned about the problems of Muslim assailants and uncontrollable Fulani herdsmen, do not remember the innocent peaceful Shi’ites marchers carrying no arms with them and the overdue release of their  leader; and if they cannot be grateful to the USA government for their watch, they should rather leave the US government to their initiative, as the international watch-dog, promoting world unity, justice and peace, a job they are already  good at over the years and need no personal counsel and influence of neither group nor individual.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    