RAPHAEL EDE THOUGH the International Conference on Witchcraft at the University of Nigeria Nsukka, Enugu State, clerics who opposed the event, have vowed to pray against the actualisation of the conference’s goals. There were criticisms against the conference by the Christian community when held last week, Prof Benedict Ijomah of the UNN’s Centre for Policy Studies and Research, announced to host it last week. Soon after the invitation was released and uploaded on the Internet, the social media went into frenzy, with the Christian community condemning the conference’s theme, calling for its cancellation. Though the organisers tried to explain that the conference was purely academic to discuss the phenomenon ‘witchcraft’, the Christian community refused to listen to the explanation. The Christian Association of Nigeria described the conference as a subtle way of inviting witches and wizards from all over the world to in Enugu State. The association declared a one-day prayer by all Christians against the conference, saying the ‘convention is not of God and must not hold in Jesus name.’ The Chairman of CAN, South-East chapter, Bishop Goddy Okafor, in a statement directed all churches in the South East to pray against ‘this evil movement’. He also called on all Christian campus fellowship groups and other Christian students’ associations to join in the effort and stand for Jesus against what he described as evil development in the South-East. Also, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria faulted the event organisers. It urged the varsity’s Vice Chancellor, Prof Charles Igwe, to stop the conference, saying the state was in a serious danger should the conference be allowed. Speaking through its Chairman in the state, Godwin Madu, the PFN said it would explore everything to stop the event, describing it as a way of handing the state over to the kingdom of darkness. Madu, who expressed the opposition of the Christian body to the event, said “we cannot fold our hands and watch our future dragged into what will not give God glory. “To this end, the church in Enugu has declared a two-day prayer of warfare. We must not allow this at a time like this, as we have had enough of ungodly activities in the country. The church should pray against those sponsoring evil in the state. “Enugu State is in the hands of God and for that reason, we will not hand it over to witches. All Christians should without delay call on the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and the awesome God of David to fight for His name.” However, in spite the opposition by the Christian organisations, the conference was held as the organisers had planned. The organisers merely changed the initial theme, “Witchcraft, meanings, factors and practices” to ‘’Dimensions of human behaviours.” It was gathered that the UNN management directed the organisers to drop the initial theme for the conference on account of protests from the Christian community. The Director of the B.I.C Ijomah Centre, Prof. Egodi Uchendu, who spoke at the opening of the conference attended by scholars from across the country, regretted how an academic conference was twisted to cause confusion on social media platforms. “The casualty of this confusion went beyond being asked by UNN management to change title but also the withdrawal of our keynote speaker, Prof David Ker. “I am delighted that social media hype on the conference didn’t deter participants and organisers from attending the conference which is completely academic,” she said. A professor, Damian Opata, in a paper titled, “The wealthy are no witches: Towards an epistemology and ideology of witchcraft among the Igbo of Nigeria”, said the way witchcraft was propagated and believed by some Nigerians had continued to kill the development of knowledge on the issue. Opata added, “Some people have killed the initiative for creative indigenous thinking because of a mere belief in witchcraft. Pastors, prophets and seers in foreign religions, charismatic priests of variegated persuasions frequently use perceived attacks by witches and wizards to put fear in the minds and hearts of their various congregations.” On his part, the Head, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, UNN, Prof. Ezeh Peter-Jazzy, who spoke in a paper he titled, “Which witch? What anthropology knows of the adult bugbear”, said witchcrafts only existed in the minds of those who believed in it. Peter-Jazzy said, “Science and technology have overtaken the superstitious belief of witchcraft which has no practical proof.” Eze said it was time Africa droped the belief of witchcraft and embraced robust knowledge in science and technology which he said its application “is very practical and verifiable.” Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, Ijomah described those who opposed the conference as hypocrites. Ijomah said, “They, Christians saying they were coming to Nsukka to demonstrate, I wonder why they did not show up because I had prepared for them. They are hypocrites. I came to confront them but they make a noise on the pages of newspapers. They did not even come near the university.’’ Some pastors who spoke to our correspondent said the church would continue to pray that the intentions behind the conference would not materialise even though programme held. One of the clerics, Apostle Joseph Ajujungwa, who is Can Secretary in the southern states, said they declared prayers and fasting noting that the prayers had been on since Saturday along with a mini demonstration. Ajujungwa said, “We have prayed and prayed even this morning (Saturday). We just finished from a meeting. While we go back, we will continue to be praying because the Bible says we should pray without ceasing. We cannot desist from praying and we will continue praying.’’ Saying the organisers claimed the conference was an academic exercise, he said, “Yes, it is a pure academic exercise but that is how everything starts. There are those that will present witchcraft from another angle.” Also, Madu said after the warning issued by the PFN, the organisers changed the topic to deceive the populace. He added, “Changing the topic is not changing the motive behind their conference. One thing we know personally, as head of PFN, I don’t want to create a situation whereby the state will look ungovernable. “We resorted to prayers for God to handle the situation otherwise I would have called the church out to the street and even to the conference centre. We have the strength and the mighty. We have the number and we would have created probably a state of emergency within Enugu State axis.’’ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 