Leke Baiyewu and Edward Nnachi The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the killing that occurred on Monday in Umunakwa Ifite in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State during the attempt to arrest Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lawyer to the leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. A member of the House, Chris Azubogu, whose motion was unanimously adopted at the plenary on Thursday, leading to the resolution, however, tactically made no reference to IPOB and Kanu. His motion was titled ‘Urgent need to investigate violence and killings in my constituency and to avert breakdown of law and order.’ Youths in Oraifite, Ekwusigo LGA of Anambra State had on Monday reportedly killed two policemen for alleged attack on the house of Ejiofor. IPOB and Kanu had also accused state security agents of killing members of the group. The police had since declared the lawyer wanted. Adopting Azubogu’s motion, the House urged the Department of State Services and other relevant agencies to “conduct a thorough investigation into the incident, with a view to unmasking the root cause of the violence and forestall further escalation of same.” The House also mandated the Committee on National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance with the resolution and report back within three weeks. Moving the motion, Azubogu said, “On Monday, December 2, 2019, there was a clash between the police and some group of persons. The aftermath of the conflict was alleged killing of so many persons, including police personnel, and destruction of public and private properties. READ ALSO: My sister died of cancer, not by spiritual attack “This action has caused serious unrest and bitterness between the people in the area and law enforcement agencies. If the situation is not properly handled, it could lead to further unnecessary loss of lives, valuable properties and a breakdown of law and order.” Earlier, Kanu had alleged that the police and the army killed three men when they invaded the house of his lawyer. Meanwhile, the leadership of the Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders, on Thursday, condemned the alleged takeover and the siege laid by soldiers and policemen to Ejiofor’s house. The youth coalition stated this in a statement on Thursday by its President-General, Ibem Goodluck; and Secretary General, Kanice Igwe. The coalition said the development had led to avoidable loss of lives and destruction of properties worth billions of Naira. The Igbo youth described the claim by the police that Kanu’s lawyer was involved in a case of “abduction, assault, occasioning harm and malicious damage,” was unfounded because nobody had been mentioned as a victim. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 