Samuel Awoyinfa The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, has said that there is a need for Nigerians to have knowledge of the nation’s geological make-up in order to avert tremors and earthquake. He said this in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, during the 2019 Nigerian Mining and Geoscience Society and Nigeria Geological Survey Agency Discourse Series on Earth Tremors in Nigeria and the Role of Geoscientist. The Minister said that the recent series of crustal disturbance which were experienced in Mpape, Katampe, Maitama and Gwarimpa, all in Abuja on the 5th to 7th September and 2nd of November, 2018 had no doubt suggested that Nigeria could no longer be considered to be in seismically stable region of the world. Adegbite who was represented by a director in the ministry, Davies Olapade, stated that there was a need to have knowledge of the geology of Nigeria and the origin of earthquake. He said, “Nigerians need to have clear understanding of the disasters. Study has shown that earthquakes are waves of disturbance that are released when a rock mass under stress ruptures.” The minister added that the earth tremor occurrence in Nigeria had been reported in different parts of the country and it dated back to 1933. He, however, noted that the seismic event of July 28, 1984 which were noticeable around Ijebu-Ode, which triggered a very significant interest in earth tremor. He said, “Nigeria lies within the intraplate tectonic zone, the seismic activities in such zone are either natural like long active fault zones or human-induced, because Nigeria is known to have active fault lines which are well pronounced in the airborne magnetic maps. “Seismicity like earth tremor we are experiencing now could be human- induced through human activities like blasting of quarries in sourcing for construction aggregate materials and ground water extractions through bore holes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 