Afeez Hanafi There are palpable fears in Giwa, Oke-Aro, Aboro and Mao, in the Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State over activities of some rampaging hoodlums fomenting trouble in the communities. It was learnt that residents of the areas have been living in fear since Sunday when the clashes among the various gangs in the neighbourhoods broke out. The thugs were also said to have exploited the fights to attack residents and passersby, robbing them of their valuables. It was gathered that the mayhem started on Sunday when some boys from Aboro in Agbado, attacked their rival gang based in Mao junction. During the clash, the visiting gang reportedly waylaid many innocent people and dispossessed them of phones and cash. The following day, the Mao Junction boys, popularly known as Gbese, went on a reprisal to Aboro and unleashed terror, including engaging in robbery. A community leader, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity for security reason, said the incidents had instilled fears in residents. He said, “Those boys have become notorious in the communities and residents are helpless. Anytime they clash with one another, people will pay the price. They will brandish weapons and rob anybody in sight. “With the assistance of the police and local security men, we have had a break for some time until last Sunday when they started again. Agbado boys from Aboro went to attack Mao boys and they robbed people in the process. “On Monday, Mao boys called Gbese also went to Aboro to do same. With the intervention of the police, the situation was brought under control. But we are still afraid they can strike at anytime. They collect phones, money and beat up victims who resist them. Most of them are teenagers.” As dust settled on the clashes, another mayhem erupted between hoodlums from Giwa and Oke-Aro, two neighbouring communities in the council area. It was gathered that the thugs were hired by two factions of a union fighting over the leadership of a farm in the area. As the fights over the leadership tussle raged, the gangs reportedly robbed residents, a police source told our correspondent. The source said, “The clash started on Tuesday. Some boys from Agbado went on a rampage to a farm in Oke-Aro. The notorious gangsters among them are Eniba, Eddy, and Upper. Eddy and Upper work for a faction of the farm union while Eniba works for the other faction. The union members are fighting over the leadership of the facility. They are the ones using those boys. They attacked one another with cutlasses and robbed people. “On Wednesday, there was a rumour that Eniba is dead and that led to a fresh clash. Upper has been arrested by the Agbado Police Division. It is not as if the police cannot stop them, but they are being careful of shooting.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, promised to get back to our correspondent with updates on the crises. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 