Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The All Progressives Congress on Monday maintained a deafening silence over the demand by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State to disband the National Reconciliation Committee. The ruling party had on Wednesday announced the 10-member committee headed by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan. That was in line with the resolution of the National Executive Committee of the party at its November 22 meeting. The NEC empowered the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to raise the committee. The committee was saddled with the responsibilities of addressing grievances of party members and resolve existing conflicts in order to foster unity within the party. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, did not answer calls placed to him on Monday. He had also yet to reply to a text message sent to him on the request by Obaseki for the dissolution of the committee. But some chieftains of the party who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity said the request was an affront on the president that raised the committee. A member of the National Working Committee said, “The committee was not raised specifically for Edo state; it is a national committee. Why will the governor oppose the committee agreed to at NEC?” Another member said they had begun to see the governor’s request as an indication that he was not looking for true reconciliation. The governor’s camp and the loyalists of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had been at loggerheads. “Obviously, the governor is not looking for reconciliation. Maybe he had made up his mind to wrestle down the party,” he said. Explaining how the committee was raised, a chieftain of the party told our correspondent that members of the committee were those approved by the president. It was learnt that the president requested suggestions of names from some top chieftains of the party and eventually picked from the list and added his own. “We are not bothered about the governor’s antics. If he doesn’t want them to come to Edo, that is his business. The committee will perform its duties as stated by the NEC,” the chieftain added.