Operators in the nation’s oil and gas industry are calling for an improved policy capable of boosting investments in the gas subsector, OKECHUKWU NNODIM reports The Federal Government has said the National Gas Policy introduced by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari will remove impediments inhibiting investments in the industry. It disclosed this as operators in the sector called on the government to introduce policies that would spur investments in Nigeria’s gas business. Explaining how the gas policy of government would enhance investments in the sector, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said it would remove impediments that had stopped investors from investing in Nigeria in the past. The minister, who disclosed this during a recent summit organised by the Nigeria Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association, said the National Gas Policy articulated the vision of the Federal Government. Sylva, who spoke through the Programme Manager, Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme/Technical Adviser to the minister on Gas Business and Policy Implementation, Justice Derefaka, noted that the government was driving towards a gas-based industry and energy future for Nigeria by implementing the NGP. He said although other energy sources would still be needed, gas would have a fundamental part to play in the oil industry transition. Sylva said, “This is premised on the fact that it is readily available. It produces half the carbon dioxide and one tenth of the air pollutants that coal does when used to produce electricity. And without doubt, it can meet all the world’s energy needs.” He said the policy set goals, strategies and an implementation plan for the introduction of an appropriate institutional, legal, regulatory and commercial framework for the gas sector. “The policy intends to remove the barriers affecting investment and development of the sector,” Sylva told operators at the gathering. The minister said Nigeria was often described as a gas province with some oil, adding that the national gas reserves stood at 200.79 trillion cubic feet as at January 1, 2019. He said associated gas and non-associated gas reserves were 101.98 TCF and 98.81TCF respectively, based on aggregated reserves report from exploration and production companies. Sylva said, “We are the sixth largest LPG producer in the world and second in Africa with approximately three million metric tonnes per annum. But we have only a paltry five per cent of our about 200 million population using LPG as household energy source. “By our 2018 record, gas utilisation is being deepened by increasing LPG penetration. LPG consumption increased by about 16 per cent year-on-year. “A total of 364 LPG plants licences and approvals were issued in 2018. This is expected to give about 15 per cent rise in the nation’s LPG consumption based on storage capacity.” The minister noted that natural gas would be an essential part of the future energy mix as the world moves to a low carbon future. He said operators in the sector needed to deliver the much-needed energy for development and growth and must explore ways to scale through the Nigerian energy hurdle. “We need to put in place strategic measures to address the downside issues, challenges, gaps and aggressively pursue the upside opportunities,” he said. Sylva added, “In doing that, we need to have a paradigm shift in technical competency curriculum, training and capacity building towards a gas-based industry and energy future for Nigeria. “I say this because building technical competence and capacity to ensure our industry and nation is prepared for development is a major priority for us at the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and indeed for the Federal Government.” He stated that experience had shown that when development occured, having the capacity and the necessary skillset to deal with this and make the most of it was crucial. “And more importantly, our people, our communities and businesses must be positioned to seize the opportunities that will come. And I can categorically state that the Federal Government approved National Gas Policy seek to achieve all of these,” the minister stated. The immediate past President, Nigerian Gas Association, Dada Thomas, said it was important to have a gas law that would propel investments in the sector. “We can’t run a sector like this with laws that are not compliant enough to spur the needed investments. So we need good policies that will not just drive the sector but will create room for more investments,” Thomas said while speaking at an agenda-setting function for the oil and gas sector. Sylva assured operators that the NGP would make Nigeria an attractive gas-based industrial nation, giving primary attention to meeting local gas demand requirements and developing a significant presence in international markets. He said the policy’s mission was to move Nigeria from a crude oil export-based economy to an attractive oil and gas-based industrial economy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  