The desecration of the courtroom by men of the Department of State Services in an attempt to re-arrest Mr Omoyele Sowore recently was perhaps a hypodermic bullet that opened the bottled-up anger of Nigerians and the international community over the gross human rights violations that have become the hallmark of security agents under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The case of Sowore, a journalist and publisher of Sahara Reporters, is one out of the several cases of human rights abuse that has become a trending matter in the Nigerian polity. Others in the long list include a former National Security Adviser, Col Sambo Dasuki (retd.) who has been in the custody of the DSS since December 2015 and has obtained five different court orders that granted him bail; and the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim El- Zakzaky; as well as his wife, Zeenat, who have also been in the DSS custody since December 2015 despite several court orders that granted them bail. In September 2018, the naval authorities arrested one Group Capt Dada Labinjo and 15 others over allegations of illegal bunkering and dumped them at a military detention facility in Apapa, Lagos instead of charging them to court. A magistrate court in Apapa, however, ordered their release, but rather than comply with this order, authorities transferred them to a naval underground cell in Abuja where they were denied access to lawyers, doctors, and family members. Probably toeing the line of the Buhari regime, some governors have also given similar orders for the gestapo-style arrests of citizens perceived to be critical of their regimes. The cases of Agba Jalingo in Cross River State and Michael Itok in Akwa Ibom State are examples of the several others that have caught the ire of the local and international communities. Condemning the series of human rights violations, Nobel laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, said the “degree of cynicism in the conduct of security agents in the present regime had attained a level of consistency that is surpassed by only one other previous government.” Speaking specifically on Sowore’s re-arrest, Soyinka said dogs act more civilised than the operatives of the DSS that stormed the Federal High Court, Abuja to re-arrest the publisher of Sahara Reporters. In a statement which he titled, ‘Lessons from the African Wild Dog (Lycaeon Pictus)’, Soyinka said, “A few years ago, I watched the video of a pack of the famed African wild dogs hunt, eventually bring down, and proceed to devour a quarry. “It was an impala, antelope family. The pack isolated the most vulnerable looking member of the herd – it was pregnant- pursued it, until it fled to a waterhole which, for such animals, is the nearest thing to a sanctuary. “Almost as it was happening, I watched the video of a pack of the DSS bring down, and fight over their unarmed, totally defenceless quarry within the sanctuary of a court of law. “I found little or no difference between the two scenarios, except that the former, the wild dogs, exhibited more civilised table manners than the DSS in court manners.” In the past few years, the United States Department of State has released damning reports on Nigeria’s human rights violations. In a 48-page 2017 report, the US department stated that impunity remained widespread at all levels of government in Nigeria. READ ALSO: Sowore’s re-arrest, court invasion damaged Nigeria’s international reputation – ex-US envoy It noted that the Buhari regime lacked transparency. In 2018, the United States Department of State also heavily indicted the same regime and its agents of gross human rights violations and abuses. As 2019 draws to a close, the Office of the High Commissioner, United Nations Human Rights has drawn the attention of the world to the human rights violations in Nigeria. The OHCHR decried the high level of armed conflict; arbitrary arrests, extra-judicial killing, communal violence in Nigeria in 2019. It is on record that Buhari’s ascension to power was one that got favourable court ruling that was obeyed by democratically elected political office holders, long before his emergence. Pundits, therefore, believe that what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. According to human rights activist and lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN), Buhari and his co-travelers who enjoyed the privileges of protests during the administrations of past leaders have shown zero tolerance to what they enjoyed. Speaking with Saturday PUNCH, Falana, who analysed Buhari’s turbulent return to the seat of power, said, “Buhari was detained by a military dictator, Gen Ibrahim Babangida (retd.) and nobody would protest for him because he had detained people illegally. I convinced the human rights community to intervene on his behalf and that of Idiagbon (a former Chief of General Staff) and they were released after three years in detention by Babangida. “In 2003, the ANPP had a rally and it was violently suppressed by the police. It was the teargas that was inhaled by (Chuba) Okadigbo that led to his death two days later. I was briefed by General Buhari and others, I took up the matter and I won it at the Federal High Court that Nigerians do not need any permit to demonstrate. “That case went to the Court of Appeal and we won. Based on that judgment, the National Assembly amended the Electoral Act in 2015 to say that in the case of rallies and political gatherings, the Police should provide security, not permit. It was on that basis that General Buhari and the then Chairman of the ANPP, John Odigie-Oyegun, others led a protest in Abuja. “When we had a June 12 protest in Abuja, some of their members joined us, like Nasir El-Rufai. This Bashir that is making noise was arrested twice by the SSS in 2006, we fought for him and he was released. So, this has been the struggle. That was what they met on the ground- a country where suppression of human rights was a thing of the past, I am not saying that the PDP people did not repress, we fought them. “For instance, Adams Oshiomhole and Rotimi Amaechi were prevented from entering Ekiti State to attend a rally in 2014. We all condemned it and that was the last time it happened. In Osun State during the election, Alhaji Lai Mohammed was arrested by the SSS but we saved him. It is the same people now that are saying that Nigerians should not demonstrate- that is the height of hypocrisy and dishonesty and Nigerians will not allow it. “This boy, Sowore, has been protesting since his undergraduate days between 1992 to 1994. As President of the Students’ Union, he launched a war against cultism on campus but because many of the children of the rich were involved, he was expelled. Despite this, we saved him and he graduated successfully. Buhari, Lai Mohammed, and others; there was nothing they didn’t say about other governments-what they call hate speeches; many of their speeches were more than hate.” A professor of Political Science and Lagos-based public policy analyst, Femi Otubanjo, said the instances of gross human rights violation were indications that Buhari still had a military culture in him. He said, “You must understand that Buhari as a candidate and aspirant will have to say what we call ‘politically correct things’- things that are attractive to the electorate. An incumbent government is always a punching bag and those outside tend to throw their punches anyhow. “The difference between the ex-president, Goodluck Jonathan, and what you are seeing now is that Jonathan did not attempt to stop the punches. He simply allowed people to vent their anger to see what they wanted. Buhari was a frontline opposition at that time because he had contested four times. “So, it was obvious that he needed to bring down the government through negative campaigns and the political environment was conducive because Jonathan did not have the culture, background, and temperament of a dictator. “You are talking of Buhari who was schooled in the military tradition of order and command. He had also been military Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces. So, he is used to a culture of military’s order and command. “Before he became the president, he uttered speeches that could pass for treason, but Jonathan did not take it as a witch-hunt him. If you are running a good government you do not need to oppress people. You cannot stop people from talking about aberrations.” The Chairperson, Transition Monitoring Group, Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, said it was unfortunate that “we are where we are as a nation at this point.” He said, “Every citizen of Nigeria has equal rights of expression and freedom of speech and any attempt to deny people of such rights will be nothing short of a dictatorship. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Osinbajo, other SANs in Buhari regime know DSS’ court invasion unacceptable – Okpoko, former NBA president “Although the Presidency has severally disassociated itself from the actions of law enforcement agencies especially the DSS claiming that they are under law allowed to carry out their duties without seeking approval from the presidency, it has, however, failed to call some of these agencies to order when they go against the rule of law and abuse the rights of citizens, hence the general belief that the president calls the shots or is in support of their actions. “In a democratic society, the rights of the people must be duly respected and the rule of law must be allowed to prevail no matter the circumstances. We must understand that protests and lawful criticisms are legal under our constitution and that attempts to gag lawful dissent are highly illegal and unconstitutional. “So, I will say that the actions of the Presidency and the DSS so far have been undemocratic, unpatriotic and do not mean well for the future of our democracy. We must come together to resist this militarism.” A human rights lawyer, Mr Tope Akinyode, said that Buhari’s conduct in the face of human rights violations was grave misconduct under section 143 (11) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “Lawful dissents, free speech, press freedom and all that, are constitutional matters and the President’s idiosyncrasies cannot be a cover for an illegal attack on the constitutional rights of the people,” he said. “The conduct of the President is a grave misconduct under Section 143 (11) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. Assuming the National Assembly was to defend the constitution in good faith, impeachment proceedings should have commenced against him by now,” Akinyode, who is also the managing partner at BroadWings Attorneys, added. It is generally believed that the Buhari regime needs to turn a new leaf and erect the necessary framework and machinery for the promotion of human rights and human dignity in Nigeria. Experts say nothing damages a country’s reputation than human rights violations and abuses. However, events in the coming months will indicate if the regime has realised and turned a new leaf. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com