A former Minister of Information and one of the leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Prince Tony Momoh, speaks to GBENRO ADEOYE about the re-arrest of the convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, and the retired Major General Muhammadu Buhari regime’s penchant for disobeying court orders You recently described the court invasion by the Department of State Services to re-arrest the convener of #RevolutionNow,  Omoyele Sowore, as treasonable, unpardonable and unforgivable, so are you not surprised that no action has been taken by the government on the matter till now? But the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice (Abubakar Malami, SAN) has announced to everybody that he was taking over the matter from the DSS, but whether there were DSS officers in that court or not, is a matter to be investigated. I said the action was treasonable if they did it and I added that I didn’t believe they did it. I don’t believe it because it is in their training to know where they can make an arrest. You don’t arrest in a courtroom. I have been in the system for long so I don’t believe that could happen and if it did, then those people have done what should not have been done. I don’t believe any trained security outfit can go to areas they have been told are forbidden in their training. I don’t believe DSS officers were in the court and I said in the likely event that they were there, then investigation should reveal those responsible for it and they should be tried for treason. But there are videos of what happened on the Internet, of how Sowore was being dragged in the courtroom, haven’t you seen such videos? I saw the video but does that mean that the people in the video were DSS officers? I saw someone in red, was he the DSS officer? Who among them worked for the DSS? I’m not defending anything but if it happened, then whoever is responsible must be dealt with. The court is a protected territory. I was a reporter with the Daily Times and I knew if the police wanted to arrest, they would wait for you to leave the court and once you did, they would arrest you and lead you to a waiting car. But to go inside a courtroom and arrest someone is unimaginable. If it happened, it is indefensible. So if those seen in the video you saw dragging Sowore in the courtroom, which forced the judge to hurriedly leave, were not DSS officers, then how did Sowore end up in DSS custody after the whole drama? A report said it was his lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), who drove him to the DSS office, nobody has denied that report. But Falana has since condemned the action of the DSS officers who invaded the courtroom… I saw Falana telling them they could not arrest there, and that they must do it outside. I saw all of them moving outside. I don’t know what happened outside but I read in the papers that Falana himself drove him to the DSS. Whatever happened in court should be investigated and whoever was involved should be punished. That was the question; I’m saying are you not surprised that it has not yet been investigated? I am not the one to investigate it; those to do that will do it but the AGF has taken over the matter. But if there is a subsisting judgment granting Sowore bail, why didn’t the AGF just insist on his release instead of taking over the case while the man continues to be held in custody? He was not the one who put him in custody; he was in the custody of a security agency… Illegally… I’m a lawyer; I don’t support anybody disobeying court orders, whoever they may be. They may have reasons for doing so and many of them will say it is because of national security but I don’t support anyone disobeying court orders. Nigerians have observed that it has become a norm for this government to disobey court orders as this was not the first time, considering the cases of the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and a former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd.). They were granted bails by various courts and the Buhari regime denied them their rights. Anything outside due process, I do not support. But we are living in a country where there is preoccupation with ensuring security and those who are charged with ensuring security will do anything to ensure what they think will secure the country, even if it is outside due process. But that is their argument, not mine. As far as I’m concerned, due process must be followed. Having said it must be followed, those who do not obey court orders may have reasons for doing so but I will never support the disobedience of court orders. Even if these security agencies are doing so, thinking it is for national security, isn’t it curious that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), or the Presidency has not condemned it? There is division of labour. For instance, the Managing Director of a newspaper will not come out to talk when a reporter has done something that is against public interest. So you think the President has nothing to do; he will be watching what agencies do and start issuing public statements. There is division of labour but the buck stops at the President’s desk; I don’t deny that. But for him to make a public statement because people say he must make a statement, I don’t think that is acceptable in any polity. But there is also no sign that he has done anything to ensure justice as the man is still in custody. You and I don’t know what happens behind closed doors. Lawyers are never tired of pursuing things through due process. If the man is still in detention, I have no doubt that lawyers will go to court to push for his release. After all, it was the active pursuit of the case that led the judge to order that Sowore should be released within 24 hours and he was granted bail. And he was re-arrested barely 24 hours later. Yes. Do you honestly think that some of the things the DSS has been accused of, like having no regard for the judiciary and rule of law, were done without Buhari’s permission? Once the President has appointed an Inspector General of Police, why should they report everything they do every day to the President? He is the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and there are hundreds of agencies in the country. People report to him every day. There are issues of national and international interest that he attends to. So, you think all the things that we can deal with at our level are what he will be looking at; the President is a busy man. We as media people and monitors of the government should do our jobs. When we believe something is wrong and don’t talk about it because the President has not spoken, then nothing is being done. READ ALSO: I fear Nigeria ‘ll burn if hardship, insecurity continue without end — Gani Adams That is exactly the point; Nigerians, the media and the international community have been talking but this regime doesn’t seem to care. If you appoint someone to do a job, and they are violating the constitution, are you not also responsible for their actions if you don’t sack them? If you are in charge, then you can sack them. There is freedom of expression. You are expressing your opinion by saying what you think should happen. Things are happening every day; we are fighting a war. We have economic war. We have closed our borders. There are armed robbery incidents everywhere. We have many problems the President tackles from 6am to midnight, every day, meeting people. Why do you think the President should sit down and be monitoring who is in jail and all that while there are other people who should be attending to those areas? And when other people are not attending to those areas, as the boss, should Buhari ignore that? I am not saying he should, what I am saying is that we try to bring the President to play football when he is even not the referee. There is division of labour but he is the President and the buck stops at his table. If there is any problem, we must blame the President because he is the President. I do agree that we must but don’t think that it is more of an expression of opinions by those who expressed their opinions? When you advise me to do something and I don’t do it, does it then mean I am liable to you for not doing it? No. Everybody has their own issues to attend to and when there is a problem, you should go to the appropriate authorities, like the court, to table it. The courts are always there. You should never be tired of going to court. Are you talking about the same courts that the Buhari regime has undermined, ridiculed and disrespected again and again? For you to persuade me, give me all the cases that have been determined in courts and those that are obeyed and not obeyed. When you arrive at the conclusion that court judgments are not being obeyed, then we will know where we can go from there. You have not investigated to know the number of cases decided every day and people who are released. If it is one sheep that is missing out of 99, I am not saying we should not look for it but I am saying generalisation is not helpful when we are discussing serious issues. Buhari cannot be interested in all the cases decided in courtrooms across the country but it appears that this regime only obeys court judgments that suit it in cases that Buhari has interest in. Buhari even said on national TV that why would he release Dasuki, who committed this and that offences? Is that not proof that Buhari has abrogated the power of the judiciary? Listen, I am saying I don’t support any disobedience of court orders but those who disobey court orders have their reasons for not obeying court orders and the lawyers should never be tired of pursuing the matter and bringing them to public forum for discussion. I agree with what you are saying but what I am saying is that, that someone did not obey court orders does not mean it is because he has interest in it. Because he has an interest like national interest, which is so important to him, he can say, ‘No I won’t obey and I dare the consequences of not obeying.’ The consequence of not obeying is that we are critical of the disobedience. Let everybody have their say but the government bears responsibility for everything that happens. The buck stops at his table. In a recent interview, you said it was treasonable if the DSS invaded a courtroom and in the next breath, you said anyone who called for a revolution was looking for trouble, are you saying Sowore’s re-arrest was justified? People use words. Sowore is a journalist and is educated. He knows the difference between a ‘million man march’ and a ‘revolution to pack out these people’. I am quite sure he would have been embarrassed if nothing had happened to him. It is the same with the analogy I gave about the Zikist Movement. Six weeks before a lecture titled, ‘A call for Revolution’ at Tom Jones Hall in Lagos in 1948, they were practising how to cope with prison conditions. It was delivered by Osita Agwuna. Nnamdi Azikiwe was to be the chairman (of the event), but he didn’t go there because he knew the implications. Anthony Enahoro, a vibrant editor, went to chair it and was sent to jail. What I am saying is that the word – revolution – means outside due process. Sowore contested election that Buhari won. He called for #RevolutionNow, saying ‘we must pack out this government’. There is no security agency anywhere in the world that will accommodate such unguarded choice of words. But some have also described it as a matter of semantics and that what it meant was change and not violent change. After all, no weapons or arms were found on him or the protesters… The All Progressives Congress came with mantra of change; who has taken the APC to court? When you mention revolution, everybody sits up, especially security officers. They will ask if a war is coming. But do you know that even Buhari as a candidate of the Congress for Progressive Change, when he lost the 2011 presidential election, praised the Egypt revolution of 2011, calling for something like that in Nigeria and even commended the Egyptian military for not attacking the protesters he called ‘forces of change’? And what did Buhari do? I was the National Chairman of the CPC. In 2003, he had 12 million votes; in 2007, we know he secured more votes than he was given; in 2011, and he got 12 million votes, according to them. And then he said he was not going to contest again. We said no, you are a party man, you will contest again. We called the Labour Party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance, the Action Congress of Nigeria, the All Nigeria Peoples Party and started discussion to have a merger, not an alliance because alliances would be broken. For APGA, only a faction came and the LP refused to be part of it because of the problem between (Asiwaju Ahmed) Tinubu and (Olusegun) Mimiko. There was a merger which gave us victory in 2015; that was the change we were talking about. It was the first time in the history of Nigeria when a government in power was defeated at the national level. But when our brother came, he said we must pack out this government. Through what process? Revolution now. If people say it is a matter of semantics, let them explain it. I just explained what we did.  We got the government that was there out through due process. So when Buhari praised the Egyptian revolution during which lives were lost, what did that mean? I just told you how we went about our own. But who would have known when he was making those statements that eventually the move would be to have a merger.  The government of the day could also have had him arrested for inciting the public to violence, considering that over 800 people died during the Egyptian revolution? Okay, why didn’t they pick him up? Maybe because we didn’t have a regime like the Buhari regime that would arrest peaceful protesters or the government at the time probably felt what he meant was not that kind of revolution… So because someone didn’t understand something, Buhari should take his cue (from that) and not understand. Are you saying Buhari should have been picked up? No, what I am saying is: why was he not picked up if the government thought what he was saying was a call to arms? Maybe such a leader wouldn’t have arrested Sowore either. Look, I have told you what our own revolution move was. No parties had ever dissolved in Nigeria to form another party; we did it. Even part of the Peoples Democratic Party joined us. Sowore can take over government in the next election; he should not have said ‘pack them out’. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Don’t leave men who cheat on you, Bukunmi Oluwasina tells women Have you also noticed that this regime has not even tolerated peaceful protests? There was a time the musician, 2Baba, wanted to organise a national protest and the police said no, even after Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo had said there was nothing wrong in having a peaceful protest. If there is any problem against peaceful protests, it is wrong and I will condemn it. I’m a very senior member of the bar. I’m a national leader of the party; I believe in peaceful protests. I believe in due process and anybody who does not do anything in accord with established regulations should be cautioned. But there are many senior lawyers, SANs in fact, in this regime who have not been saying anything despite how it has been disregarding rule of law, like the Vice President, Prof Osinbajo; the AGF, Malami; Minister of Works and  Power, Mr Babatunde Fashola; and Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr Festus Keyamo. Write something against your paper if you will keep your job tomorrow. You are mentioning people who have roles to play (in the regime). For example, when I was the Editor of the Daily Times and later the General Manager of the Times, I criticised Degree 4 of Buhari in 1984. Later, I became the Minister of Information and was performing a public relations role, defending government’s policies. If I had anything against government’s policies, I said it in the council, internally. But outside, I defended government’s policies. The Nigeria Union of Journalists at the time told me I was not defending them and I told them I was not their public relations officer. If tomorrow you become a senior special assistant to a public officer, you are not going to be criticising the officer. Have you ever seen anyone who held a press conference to destroy themselves? Someone defined news as something nobody wants published and that every other thing is advertising. We are professionals; we perform certain assigned roles in communication. I had to defend the Ibrahim Babangida administration because I was a minister there. I had to attack the Buhari regime in 1984 because at that time, I was a member of the Nigerian Guild of Editors and the NUJ. Where then is the place of standing for what is right so that society and posterity can judge us well? And we can resign if we believe what we are part of is wrong. When your paper wants to write an editorial, it goes to the editorial board. Is it everybody who supports it? Having decided that you would write it, you would write it and defend it. Executive council meetings are tough meetings with arguments right, left, and centre. At the end of the day, a decision is taken and everybody defends it. They must support those decisions once they are taken. And I don’t think the private sector needs a Keyamo or the VP to defend it. Falana is there; at a time, we had Gani Fawehinmi. We have lots of people on the social media who don’t even verify what they post. People are lined up behind their interests and you can’t hold a grudge against them. Where then does love for nation come in? At a time, Adolf Hitler was the German leader, leaving deaths in his wake. There were trials at Nuremberg, Germany after World War II, where some of those who worked with him were found guilty. Who sentenced them to death? Not Hitler. Those who didn’t agree with Hitler and his methods were the ones who tried them. So, it is those who don’t agree that will take action against you. Look at what happened in Pakistan when its former military leader was sentenced to death. Lots of military people were opposed to that sentence. The military may stand to defend him. People have their interests to protect. If you are not happy with certain decisions taken in-house, you resign and it has happened (before). Can we say some of those interests you described are selfish interests? Every interest is selfish. There is no interest that is not selfish because human beings have free will and they take decisions and are bound by them. Every act of yours is in promotion of a particular interest; it could be personal or have to do with a group. In the country, people are talking about the major groups. (Chief Obafemi) Awolowo identified 52 nations in Nigerians, 35 of them in the North.  In the South, you talk about the North, you don’t know there are so many divisions in the North. Everybody has their own interest. There are more divisions in the North than in the South but when anyone is appointed from there, you say oh, Hausa-Fulani. We have Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa-Fulani and when big decisions are being taken, you forget us – South-South. You think we don’t have interests too. Every interest is vested interest. But whenever you are in a position, you must work for the benefit of all. You are a chieftain of the APC and some northerners are already saying they want to retain power in 2023, while some are saying it should go to the South-East or South-West, personally, where do you think it should go? It is a question of party; I am a leader in the APC and I want the party to win in 2023. The person can come from anywhere in the country but many people are saying since it has been in the North, then it should go to the South. And since the South-West played a key role, they are saying it should go there. Some are saying South-South but others say the region produced a president recently. But then, people say it should be South-East but they are not mainly members of the APC and the party cannot donate presidency to people who are not members of the party. You must belong to our party and bring votes to enable you to get to the office. A lot of people are saying if the matter is not handled very well, it could destroy the APC in 2023, do you agree? The party will not collapse. Let me tell you, Bashir Tofa is from Kano and M.K.O. Abiola came from the South-West and defeated Tofa in Kano. So anyone who wants to win the election will have to get the support of the majority of the people. If the votes come mainly from the North, whoever wants to get the presidency from the South must go to the North and work hard to get their support. I told you, there is nothing like North as such. Thirty-five out of 52 groups Awolowo identified as nations within Nigeria came from the North. Each has their own interest. How do you think Abiola was able to penetrate them? The PDP cannot win election; they (southeasterners) belong to the PDP, they didn’t vote for us so why should we donate the presidency to them? I am speaking as a Nigerian monitoring governance. There is crisis in your state, between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole. You have said the governor is the leader of the party in a state but those loyal to Oshiomhole are saying Obaseki should not expect to lead the APC there since the national chairman of the party is from there. What do you think about their argument? I think they missed the point. According to the structure of the APC, the governor is the chief executive officer of the state, politically. That is the arrangement. Oshiomhole is not competing with Obaseki in Edo State; that is what many people don’t know. It doesn’t appear like that with the violence being witnessed there lately. It is a matter of perception; that is why people who see him (Oshiomhole) more in Edo think that he has more interest than he really has in the state. Oshiomhole is the national chairman so he belongs to 36 states and the FCT. He is interested in all the states of the federation. It is like saying because Buhari comes from Katsina, he should be interested in politics there when (Aminu) Masari is governor. No, Oshiomhole has more to do than people think and I have related to him and Obaseki and I am saying it, maybe for the first time, that they have no quarrel. It is people who have vested interests that are manifesting them in the state and if we don’t tackle them, then we may lose Edo. And I tell you that we will tackle them. But the good news is that the PDP is not even organised enough to win in any state because it has collapsed. So who is responsible for the violence going on there? Those who say they are working for Oshiomhole are those called Edo People’s Movement and those supporting Obaseki are Obaseki-Shuaibu Movement. Members of the party in the state belong to one group or the other and they are destabilising the meetings of the other group. That should be stopped, if not, when we have our primary and one group wins, the other group will work against them. It has always happened. We must address the situation and get the two parties to meet. It appears that Buhari has been relegating the VP to the background and whittling down his influence in the regime; as a leader in the ruling party, what do you have to say to that? He is the chairman of the National Economic Council, constitutionally. For the Economic Advisory Council that was formed, there were no economists there and they all sat down and decided to have professional economists there. For the Social Investment Programme, you know, he has no ministry. What the government has done is to regularise the operation by creating a ministry for it. The roles were moved to the ministry. In a ministry, you have permanent secretary, directors, and so on, but the VP did not have such things and it was good that he manned those areas but it has been moved to a ministry. And those in those areas moved to the ministry. The VP is fully occupied. The relationship between the President and the VP is the most cordial among between President and VP since we returned to democracy in 1999. So why was it that recently when some aides of the VP were sacked, his spokesperson denied it, but the Presidency came out to state that it happened. I am not aware of that but the fact is that movement of staff members is regularised. Many people were moved to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 