Joseph Olaoluwa Taidob College, Abeokuta has won four awards at the just- concluded 2019 Junior Achievement Company of the Year competition which held in Ghana. The awards which were sponsored by First Bank of Nigeria Limited, recognised the school for entrepreneurship skills among others. A statement said, Taidob College that picked the ticket to represent Nigeria at the event competed against 10 other Junior Achievement- member countries in Africa. The countries were the Kingdom of Eswatini (Swaziland), Ghana, Zambia, Gabon, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Botswana, Kenya and South Africa. The school was recognised in four categories which included Client Focus Award, Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, Facilitator of the Year Award, and was second runner up which was the Company of the Year Award. It stated that the feat came after the Abeokuta- based college emerged winner of the 2019 National Company of the Year Competition  which was organised by Junior Achievement Nigeria, thereby gaining automatic qualification to the African stage of the competition which recently held in Ghana. The African stage of the competition was sequel to the national event featuring 12 student companies that were zonal winners from across the country, including the eventual winner, Taidob College Abeokuta. The Group Head, Marketing & Corporate Communications, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Folake Ani-Mumuney, commended the students. She said, “The youngsters from Taidob College have indeed made Nigeria and Nigerians proud. Winning four various awards is a recognition of the viability of the innovative solutions designed to save lives. “The impact of their innovation – the Gas Leakage Detector – would go a very long way at solving the problem of fire outbreaks due to gas leakages in homes, offices, and industries. We congratulate Junior Achievement Nigeria on the strides achieved in Ghana.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    