Ifeanyi Onuba The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission said it would from next year intensify its enforcement against consumer rights violations. The commission also said that it would work towards the establishment of a Tribunal as provided for in its Act that would be solely responsible for adjudication of cases on consumers rights violations. The FCCPC is the apex consumer protection agency in Nigeria established to ensure customer satisfaction in the market place and responsiveness of service providers to consumers. The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act was enacted by the National Assembly in December 2018, and subsequently signed into law by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in January 2019. This changed its status from the former Consumer Protection Council to FCCPC. The Chief Executive, FCCPC, Mr Babatunde Irukera, said the commission would focus more on a robust enforcement and wider consumer education next year. He said if the commission could achieve its enforcement drive, the action would be able to rescue Nigerian consumers from exploitation by service providers. He said, “In 2020, I want you, the media, to come on a voyage with us to improve the mechanism of enforcing consumers’ rights in Nigeria. “We should be focusing on a robust enforcement, wider consumer education. “If we can achieve these two better than before, we would put more smiles on the faces of Nigerian consumers, be able to rescue them from exploitation by service providers, production, distribution and manufacturing entities.” He stated that the commission would go all out to hold manufacturing, production and service companies accountable to the people. “We would want to know how they respond to consumers’ complaints. We shall similarly device mechanism  and put them on their toes, to help satisfy customers better,” he added. He explained that in the past, the commission was receiving over 1,000 complaints monthly but that after much efforts in challenging the manufacturers, producers and services providers, such complaints had reduced significantly. He added, “In 2020, we shall take closer look at the manufacturing sector. We will look at them one by one, how they produce their goods, sell and how far they satisfy their consumers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 