Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), on Friday said the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria,  Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeenat, were not released with other detainees because  “the Federal Government does not interfere  with the cases that are being prosecuted by state governments.” El-Zakzaky and his wife are being prosecuted by the Kaduna State Government on charges of murder. Malami said the release of the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, and ex-National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, was a demonstration of government’s commitment to the rule of law. A statement by the AGF’s spokesman, Dr Umar Gwandu, quoted him as saying this while speaking to the BBC Hausa and the Hausa Service of the Voice of America. The release of the two detainees came after about four years of government disobeying at least five separate court orders granting bail to the ex-NSA, and other orders granting bail to Sowore in September and November 2019 He said, “The only reasons for the release of Omoyele Sowore and Sambo Dasuki revolved around our commitment to the rule of law, obedience to court orders and compassionate grounds. “It is important to understand the fact that as far as the law is concerned and in relation to the Nigerian justice system, one has multiple options after a court has ruled on a matter.” Malami added, “The individuals concerned were released out of compassion and mercy as well as obedience to the rule of law and not because of any extraneous consideration. The Federal Government has the right to keep detaining the suspects while challenging the order admitting them to bail up to the apex court.” The Department of State Services  had reluctantly released Sowore and his co-defendant, Olawale Bakare, on December 5, following a 24-hour ultimatum issued by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court in Abuja,  but only for the operatives of the agency to invade the court the following day to rearrest the RevolutionNow’ protests convener. The December 6, 2019 invasion of the court by the operatives to rearrest the former presidential candidate had galvanised domestic and international condemnations of the culture of impunity, disregard for human rights, and violation of rule of law, believed to be major features of the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). The release came 13 days after PUNCH published a hard-hitting editorial criticising the human rights record of the Buhari regime. Six United States of American lawmakers also reportedly wrote Malami requesting the release of Sowore and adherence to rule of law by the government. But Malami maintained on Friday that the two men were released not due to domestic and international pressure, specifically denying receiving any letter from the American lawmakers. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com