‘Femi Asu The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board is looking to encourage operators to tap the oil and gas investment opportunities in Brass Island. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr Simbi Wabote, described the island as a strategic location, saying, “It is the closest point from which one can access many of the Floating Production, Storage and Offloading platforms that operate off the shores of Nigerian waters.” According to him, some offshore oil and gas fields are currently being accessed from far locations like Lagos, with considerable cost implications. He said developing and utilising nearby locations like Brass Island for oil and gas logistics operations would help the industry achieve significant reduction in the cost of oil production. “Part of the strategy is to site logistics requirements where it is easy to access, reducing time, fuel consumption and improving turnaround maintenance time. A serious study is going on currently to see the things that would be possible on the Island of Brass in order bring down our cost of production,” Wabote said. He spoke during the donation of a modular science laboratory to Model Government Secondary School, Twon Brass, and an Information Communication Technology Centre to Government Secondary School Okpoama, both in the Brass Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, according to a statement. According to him, other investments opportunities that are being considered by the NCDMB for Brass Island include siting a modular refinery in partnership with Waltersmith Petroleum Limited and utilising feedstock from the Nigerian Agip Oil Company, which operates in the location. Wabote said, “It is also a veritable location for even a dry dock facility or a floating dock facility. The NCDMB is currently studying a strategy for establishing and enhancing all the existing dry dock facilities to maintain our ships, light crafts and also expand our integration base in the country.” He described capacity building as one of the NCDMB’s key objectives. He said, “So far, the NCDMB has donated 25 ICT centres to secondary schools across the country and built the capacity of teachers in some states, including Katsina and Bayelsa states, as part of its capacity building and corporate social responsibility programmes. “We believe in enhancing the quality of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics education. It is sad that in some secondary schools, particularly in remote locations, students are taught these subjects without any practical experience. Our strategy going forward is to encourage STEM education as well as ICT in secondary schools across the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    