Tony Okafor, Awka An operative of the Department of State Service has reportedly killed one  Onyeocha Umuokwu in Alor community, Anambra State. It was gathered that the incident happened on Christmas Day at the house of an engineer, Mr Emeka Eze. The officer, it was gathered, allegedly fired a cow that was running away from a VIP’s house, where he was attached but missed his target and the bullet hit the victim. “Onyeocha Umuokwu was shot by an officer at Mr Eze’s house in Alor on Wednesday. A cow cut the rope used to tie it, and started running. The officer on duty aimed to shoot the cow, but mistakenly shot and killed Umuokwu. It’s so painful.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, in statement on Friday, confirmed the killing. He however dispelled the claim that it was a policeman that committed the act. He said, “The attention of the Anambra State Police Command has been drawn to a misleading report being circulated that one Onyeocha Umuokwu was allegedly shot by a police officer at Mr Eze’s house in Alor community, Idemili South LGA of Anambra State. “The report probably orchestrated by mischief makers who want to portray the police in bad light is totally misleading. In order to clear ambiguity and to set the record straight, on December 25, 2019 at the residence of one Mr Emeka Eze of Umuokwu village Alor, a DSS officer whose identity is still unknown and attached to a VIP allegedly fired gunshot at a cow in a bid to stop it from escaping but the bullet missed target and allegedly hit one domestic staff member of the said engineer and the victim died on the spot. The incident was not reported to police.” Mohammed stated that following the incident, police detectives led by the Divisional Police Officer, Nnobi Division, visited the scene but neither the engineer nor the victim’s relative were willing to provide any useful information that would aid investigation. “However, the corpse was taken to the mortuary for autopsy and case is under investigation to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     