’Femi Asu with agency report Global demand for crude from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will tumble to 29.13 million barrels per day in the first quarter of 2020, the bloc’s analysis arm said on Wednesday, highlighting the production discipline members will need to display to keep the oil market balanced. OPEC’s 14 members produced 29.55 million bpd in November, it reported in its closely watched Monthly Oil Market Report. The statistics indicated that OPEC would need to follow through on its new production cut agreement and have Saudi Arabia maintain its pledge to over-comply with its quota, to prevent a market oversupply that could cause oil prices to slide, according to S&P Global Platts. OPEC, Russia and nine other allies last week ratified new output caps for the first three months of next year, with OPEC agreeing to slash 372,000 bpd of production. Saudi Arabia said it would go further and hold its output to 9.74 million bpd, well under its new quota and below its November production of 9.85 million bpd. The supply curbs reaffirmed the OPEC+ coalition’s “continuing commitment to oil market stability,” OPEC said in the report. OPEC and its allies plan to meet March 5-6 in Vienna to review their production cut agreement and decide whether to extend them. OPEC’s analysis indicates they likely will need to, with demand for OPEC crude falling to 28.88 million bpd in the second quarter. For the full-year 2020, OPEC left its forecasts of global oil demand and non-OPEC supply unchanged from its projections last month. Demand will reach 100.88 million b/d in 2020, up 1.08 million b/d from 2019. Non-OPEC supply, meanwhile, will rise to 64.46 million b/d in 2020, up 2.17 million bpd from 2019, driven by gains in the US, Brazil, Canada and Norway, OPEC said. Oil inventories in OECD countries fell in October, the most recent month for which data is available, to 2.933 billion barrels, still some 33 million barrels above the five-year average that OPEC has said it is targeting. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  