Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf, speaks with OKECHUKWU NNODIM on the colossal effects of poor power supply on the Nigerian economy Is the power supply challenge in Nigeria surmountable considering the barrage of complaints by operators in the sector? Of course, providing electricity is not rocket science. There are models around the world that are working well which we can adopt. It is a question of getting the right model. However, we need to fix the multifaceted challenges that currently face the power sector. These are issues around financial capacity of current investors, technical capacity, tariff issues, technical and commercial losses, economics of gas supply, gas pricing and the dynamics of the investment assumptions. There are also political and social issues affecting pricing and related issues. We need to take all these on board to get an enduring solution. How can the losses incurred by businesses/households in Nigeria due to poor power supply be quantified? The cost of poor power supply to the economy is colossal. There is enormous impact on investment and there is huge impact on households as well. Together one could estimate the productivity loss to the economy at 10 per cent of the nation’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product), which amounts to over N10tn annually. There are the direct losses to investors in the form of erosion of profit margins, outright business failure resulting from prohibitive production and operating cost, competitiveness problems, loss of market share and many more. There is also the profound welfare effect on the citizens. High energy cost increases the cost of goods and services produced locally, which drives costs and pushes inflation. High cost implies higher prices, which reduces the real income of citizens, erodes purchasing power of the citizens and invariably undermines the welfare of the people. It also aggravates the poverty situation in the country. Many factories have been turned into warehouses for imported finished goods on account of competitiveness challenges faced by industrialists due to high energy cost and other business environment issues. Some have been taken over by worship centres, while others have been converted to supermarkets. This is the unfortunate trend which can be attributed to the prohibitive energy cost in the economy. This is why it is easy for imported finished products to overrun domestically produced goods. It also allows smuggling to thrive. Regrettably, not much has happened to support the competitiveness of these firms. Rather the emphasis has been a disproportionate focus on protectionism. Ideally, protectionism should be a complimentary policy to productivity enhancement strategies, not the main policy plank for industrialisation. Power sector failure affects productivity across sectors, weakens the capacity of companies to create jobs, escalates the problem of unemployment and worsens the poverty situation across the country. Social problems escalate with rising unemployment, which invariably contributes to the problem of insecurity in the country. There is also the impact on government revenue. If businesses continue to grapple with high energy cost, profit margins will be affected and government revenue from taxes will be impacted as well. There is also the negative impact on capacity utilisation. Has the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission been thorough enough in handling the crisis in the power sector? The regulators are doing their best. But they are grappling with several contextual issues, especially political and social considerations impeding regulatory effectiveness. But surely the regulators can do much better to ensure a good balance between the interests of the investors and that of consumers. Metering has been a recurring issue for most electricity consumers. Strangely, the problem is yet to be effectively addressed. Do you share the view that the privatisation of the power sector be reviewed? Current privatisation of the power sector surely deserves to be urgently reviewed.  The expectations of investors and citizens have not been met. The power situation has in fact worsened compared to the pre-privatisation era. The whole experience has given privatisation a bad name. But the problem is not with privatisation as a concept, the trouble is the manner and context of the Nigerian version of the power sector privatisation. It therefore needs revisiting since the desired outcomes have not been achieved, seven years after. There is a need for a model that will effectively address the gaps in the process that produced the current privatisation outcomes. There are obvious gaps in funding, technical capacity, pricing model, gas supply chain, metering, transmission, etc. So the approach should be holistic. Lawmakers recently suggested that there be a declaration of a state of emergency in the power sector. Do you subscribe to this and why? I am in agreement with the call for a state of emergency in the power sector by the National Assembly. The biggest constraint to productivity in the Nigerian economy is the failure of power supply system. The real economy cannot thrive if the power situation remains epileptic. There is a huge toll on the economy because of the prohibitive energy cost, which is affecting the capacity of the economy to create jobs. Has the LCCI shown support for the growth of the power sector, either through recommendations or advocacy? The LCCI has been engaging key stakeholders in the power sector. Proposals have been made to find a lasting solution to the power sector issue in the country. Some of these include decentralisation of the sector, focus on off grid solutions and focus on mini-grids. Others include more investment in embedded power option, promotion of captive power plants and provision of incentives for renewable energy solution. There should also be abolishment of import tariff on renewable energy equipment batteries and inverters, addressing issues of metering, fixing capacity issues in funding and technical competencies. Nigeria exports power to some African countries despite the poor electricity supply situation in this country. Also, these African countries owe Nigeria billions of naira. Is this a healthy situation for Nigeria? Of course, this is not a healthy situation. First, we don’t have enough power and for some reasons we are still exporting power. That in itself is a paradox of some sort. But I think we need to interrogate that deeper. I don’t remember clearly now but there was a time I learnt that because of the issue of constructing dams along the Niger, some concessions were given to some countries along River Niger for us to supply them power. This is so that they would not dam it, because if they do it will affect our hydro-power generation. But the fact that they are owing us, I think that is something we should not allow to happen. Nigeria should not tolerate such debts, which right now are running into several billions of naira. We also know that many sectors of the Nigerian economy are faced with revenue shortages. As a country, we complain of revenue shortages often. In the power sector, for instance, there is a lot of revenue challenges which operators in that space are facing. So we should not be tolerating such debts at all. Nigeria has been recording power grid collapse cases recently. How does this situation impact on the economy? Power grid collapse is a question of making an already bad situation worse. The energy situation is very bad. If you ask an average business person, particularly those who are into commodity production or any energy intensive enterprise, they will tell you that their biggest headache is the high energy cost. This is because not so much energy is available from the public power supply system and as a result of this many businesses have to provide alternative sources at very expensive rates. We are talking about the use of diesel and in some cases the use of gas. Small business are the worst hit in the power crisis across the country, as most of them in one way or the other still depend on public power supply. It therefore means that with the frequency of our country’s grid collapse, they (businesses) may now have to spend more on alternative sources of power and the impact of that on businesses is very obvious. First, their cost will go up. Second, their profit margins will drop. Third, their competitiveness will become weaker. The fourth is that the capacity to sustain the business itself will become more difficult. This situation will also add to the problem of high mortality rate of small businesses. This is because energy cost is one of the major factors that impacts on the mortality rate of small businesses. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 