Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps has arraigned nine before the Lagos State Special Offences Court (Environmental Unit), Ogba, for environmental offences. It was gathered that the defendants were arrested during a joint operation by the LAGESC and the Lagos State Waste Management Authority in different locations, including Ikeja, Agege, Oregun, Jakande Estate and the Lekki/Epe Expressway for indiscriminate dumping of refuse. The defendants, Gabriel Joel, Segun Adekunle, Joel Godwin, Kabiru Aliu, Aminu Lawal, Christy Nwamkama, Ochanya Ejembi, Mercy Amu and Garuba Kadiri, were arraigned before Chief Magistrate M. A. Ojo for dumping refuse illegally in public places contrary to the Environmental Management and Protection Law, 2017. They pleaded not guilty to the charge. The magistrate, however, ordered that the offenders be imprisoned for one week or pay a fine of N5,000 each. Our correspondent learnt that seven defendants had been able to meet their bail conditions, while the other two were remanded pending the perfection of their bail. Reacting to the development, the Corps Marshal of LAGESC, Gbemisola Akinpelu, stated that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is passionate about the cleanliness of the environment, had directed the agency to clamp down on all violators of environmental sanitation laws in the state. In a related development, the agency also arrested 40-year-old Hakeem Oyediji for impersonating an officer of the agency and allegedly extorting money from illegal street traders on Bendel Close, off Bishop Aboyade Cole Street, Victoria Island. It was gathered that Oyediji, who was handed over to the police, had allegedly been operating for over three months with a fake identity card. Akinpelu, while warning residents of the state to desist from impersonating government workers, said, “The Lagos State Government frowns sternly on impersonation of its officials and will ensure that examples are made of errant individuals aiming to tarnish the excellent image of the state to feed their covetousness and laziness.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   