The fire incident was said to have been caused by a gas explosion while cooking… No, we don’t cook with gas. We only use firewood. We use the modern-day stove that uses little firewood so it is environmental friendly. So, it is not that the explosion was caused by gas while someone was cooking. But I am not based here. In fact, my family, including my late wife, Mariam, were staying in Abuja. Mariam was only in Danmusa for a wedding. And since school holidays had started, I asked her to bring the children along and spend the holiday here. Unfortunately, all the seven people in the house died before help could come. No one survived to tell the story of how it happened. Neighbours and sympathisers said they had to break the fence to get into the house. They said the main gate to the house was locked from inside, which initially prevented them from getting into the house. And by the time they got in, all the seven persons inside the house had been burnt to death. Apart from your wife, who were the other victims? Apart from my wife, others included Jamila, who was seven months pregnant; Zainab; Usman and Gidado. I cannot remember the names of others now. What about your children that you said followed their mother to Danmusa? They are fine. Few minutes before the incident, they were taken out separately by two different neighbours. About 30 minutes before the incident occurred on Saturday, I spoke to my wife. The incident occurred around 3pm and we spoke around 2.30. We exchanged pleasantries and cracked jokes. We also spoke about the holiday lesson we were trying to arrange for our children in Danmusa. I promised to call her back later in the day but shortly after our phone conversation, I felt uncomfortable and called her again. However, there was no connection. I called persistently but couldn’t connect again. I also called her sister, who was with her in the house, but her line was not available either. Later, an uncle called to tell me that there was an incident at home and asked me to come to Danmusa immediately. So I called a close cousin to give me details of the incident. At that point, I was confused and could not even hold my car key as my hands were hands were shaking. So, a friend volunteered to drive me down to Danmusa. Do you know the worth of properties lost in the fire? All the items in the house were burnt. No single item was salvaged as help came late because the gate was locked. Apart from Mariam, do you have any other wife? No. She was my only wife. When did you get married? About seven years ago. We had three children. One died earlier, leaving us with two boys – Abdulrahman (four) and Muhammad, (two). How would you describe your late wife? Mariam was quiet, humble and supportive. She was always after the welfare of the family, and that of the extended family members. What will you miss most in her? I will miss her love for me and the children. I am 33 years old and she was 27. We both had plans for our future. She was particularly concerned about her children’s education. That actually informed our decision to also enrol the children for holiday lesson during their stay in Danmusa. I will miss her very much. What is your next plan now that she is dead? For now, I cannot think of anything. I am still confused. I find it difficult to believe that she is gone. After the incident, I relocated to our extended family house at Unguwar Arewa Quarters. And our family and friends have been very supportive, especially in taking care of the children. I really thank them. I know you will want to ask when I will return to Abuja, but I cannot say when that will be at this time. Do you have any advice for people concerning the need to be careful with fire, especially during Harmattan? Which advice? We only need to seek God’s protection always. The fire incident that claimed the lives of my wife and others is a mystery to me; only God knows what exactly happened as there is no survivor to give us details. I have left everything in the hands of God. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 