Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi To accommodate the increase in passenger traffic during the Christmas season, many domestic airlines have been expanding their routes and flight frequencies. Airlines are particularly increasing their flight frequencies on routes in the eastern part of the country following the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu which had necessitated the diversion of traffic to other airports in neighbouring states. Our correspondent gathered that all the airlines flying into Owerri have increased the number of flights they would operate during the season. While some increased from one to two, others have increased from one flight daily to three. The monopoly enjoyed by Air Peace on Lagos-Asaba has also been broken as Arik Air returned to the route and Azman Air inaugurated flights to the city. As early as November, some of the flights between December 20 and 28 had sold out as tickets rose by over 100 per cent. Our correspondent had reported that at the beginning of November, an average domestic flight ticket which sold between N25, 000 and N27, 000 for economy class and between N53, 000 and N75, 000 for business class shot up to N58, 000 for economy and about N85, 000 and above for business class beginning from mid-November. An average economy ticket for a round trip which was about N48, 000 between the end of October and beginning of November is now close to N120, 000 depending on the route. The Media and Communications Manager, Dana Air, Mr Kingsley Ezenwa, said apart from expansion, some airlines had been consolidating on their existing routes due to passenger surge. “Dana is not expanding for now but we are creating more flights where necessary to ensure passengers are not stranded,” he said. He stated that airlines expected the surge which was the norm at this time of the year, and had prepared. The Communications Executive of Air Peace, Stanley Olisa, said the expansion of flights was the only way airlines could cope with the increase in passenger traffic. According to him, most airlines flying into the eastern part of the country had to increase their flight frequencies as a response to the increased demand. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 