Hindi Livinus The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, has tasked military personnel on their loyalty to the regime of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Buratai made the call during the commissioning of three projects, entrepreneurial skills acquisition centre, transit accommodation and a newly built accident and emergency ward at the Nigerian Army Medical Hospital at the  23rd Armoured Brigade, Gibson Jalo Cantonment in Yola, Adamawa State on Saturday. While charging the soldiers to redouble their efforts in defending the territorial integrity of the nation, Buratai asked them to be grateful, keep faith and be loyal to the Federal Government led by Buhari. He said the Federal Government had continued to address  all the challenges confronting the armed forces. He urged them to uphold and perform their responsibility of protecting the territorial integrity of the nation with professionalism. He said, “The Nigerian military is consolidating on the several years of its extensive fight against the insurgency and security challenges confronting the nation. “We shall continue to address your challenges. I want you to keep faith, be focused and loyal to the Federal Government and be grateful of the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, for his support to the Nigerian Army.” “I call on you to redouble your efforts and rededicate yourselves to the service of totally defending the territorial integrity of our nation.” The General officer Commanding 3 Division, N.E Angbazo, said the execution of all the projects, including the proposed building of a children’s park at 23rd Armoured Brigade and 20 Battalion in Serti were being implemented because of the tremendous premium the Nigerian Army under Buratai placed on jobs and welfare of families of soldiers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    