Friday Olokor, Abuja The Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions has demanded from the Federal Government the payment of 12 months arrears of 53.37 per cent salary increase estimated at N8.32bn. SSAUTHRIAI made the demand in a communiqué signed by its sectoral chairman, Felix Uwadiae, and Secretary, Ademola Olajire, issued after its council meeting held at the Nigerian Institute of Trypanosomiasis Research in Kaduna and obtained by Saturday PUNCH in Abuja. The agreement for the payment of 12 months arrears of 53.37 per cent salary increase estimated at N8.32bn, according to SSAUTHRIAI, was reached with its Joint Research and Allied Institutions Sector Union since 2009. Apart from the payment of 12 months’ arrears, other components of the agreement included the retirement age of 65 years, release of conditions and schemes of service; increased funding of research institutes; establishment of National Research Institutes Commission and peculiar and earned allowance. The communiqué read, “The council-in-session expressed displeasure over the continued insensitivity of the Federal Government to the plight of research institute workers over the non-payment of the 53.37 per cent arrears arising from wage increase in 2009. “Despite the agreement reached between the union and the Federal Government as well as subsequent protests and appeals from the union, the government has refused to commence payment. We hereby urge the Federal Government to immediately commence the payment. “The council-in-session thanked the two labour centres (Trade Union Congress of Nigeria and Nigeria Labour Congress) and the Federal Government for reaching a consensus on the minimum wage.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com