Bola Bamigbola Emeritus Professor of History, Banji Akintoye, has said South-West governors lack the ability to tackle poverty, even as he said poverty in the region is becoming unbearable. Akintoye said this on Friday at the 36th anniversary of Ede Unique Club and Annual Lecture with the theme: ‘Imperatives of National Security: South-West in Focus.’ The event held at the Western Sun Hotel in Ede, Osun State. The don said the high rate of poverty had led to increased insecurity in the country, adding that the situation had also led to many youths, especially from the South West, leaving the country through the Sahara Desert for greener pasture in the developed countries. He said, “There is no doubt that there is massive poverty in the South=West and in the country at large. And it is painful that our South-West governors do not know how to handle poverty. “Rather than creating job opportunities, we are enrolling our children in schools with no job prospects. Poverty is becoming unbearable in the region and as a result, many youths in the South-West are engaging in drug abuse and other illegal activities. “Economy is declining, many people are losing their jobs, there is a high level of corruption in the land and people are living in abject poverty. There is no doubt that there is an urgent need for economic revival in the South-West and the country at large.” Akintoye called on South-West governors and the Federal Government to adopt measures to empower the youth and make them productive. In his address at the event, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Chief Gani Adams, also urged South-West governors not to relent in their efforts to tackle insecurity in the region. Speaking earlier, the President of Ede Unique Club, Prof. Kajogbola Alimi, said the issue of security should not be left in the hands of the government alone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 