Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria and FCI International Limited are collaborating to set up a centre for development and international trade promotion at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. It was gathered that the facility would be called the Nigeria Aviation Conference and Exhibition Centre and would start early next year in three development stages. The Managing Director of FCI International Limited, Mr Fortune Idu, said the development followed the approval of a land lease agreement by the Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Hamisu Yadudu. Idu said FAAN conveyed the message through its Head, Directorate of Legal Services, Mr Clifford Omozeghian. He said, “The 2,500-square metre centre has been planned to project the best of Nigeria’s businesses and enterprises and stand as a centre of industry promotion and excellence. “The centre which will take off early next year is planned through three developmental stages: the first is to develop a 1000-seat capacity hall that can hold 100 exhibition booths where all kinds of industry activities including open-to-public ceremonies can be held. “The second stage is to expand by building meeting rooms, cafeteria for workshops and business hub; while the third stage will be a multi-storey facility with aerial hall, underground parking, meeting rooms, recreation and learning facilities.” He stated that such centre at the international wing of the airport was often considered as investors’ gateway. “The foresight to sign this project by the MD of FAAN is in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s mandate of increasing indigenous capacity in creating wealth by opening a platform within the airport corridors where the numerous indigenous produce can be showcased for export market using the air cargo services,” Idu said. According to him, it is also one of the efforts towards the development of the aviation industry. He added that the industry needed a centre that could project development and serve as a meeting point for not just Nigeria but Africa in general. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  