Etim Ekpimah Residents of Ijede in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State have blamed the Ikeja Electric for a bleak Christmas. It was gathered that the power firm disconnected the area from the grid on Monday, December 23, 2019, and had yet to restore power supply to it. Some of the residents, who spoke with our correspondent on Thursday, said it had become the custom of the firm to throw the area into darkness whenever there was a public holiday. One of the residents, who identified himself simply as Kazeem, said the patience of the community members was running out and urged the IE to be alive to its responsibilities. He stated, “The firm has decided to deal with us. For some of us, who did not have money to go out on Christmas Day, we thought we could derive pleasure from viewing what was going on around the world on Christmas and Boxing days. “But there has been power outage in our community since Monday. We initially thought it was a normal thing and that supply would soon be restored, but up till now, we are still in darkness.” Another resident, who identified herself simply as Shola, said the power company always come up with excuses for not rendering service to the community during holidays. She accused Ikeja Electric of being insensitive to the plight of the Ijede community. Shola said, “I am not happy. If we don’t pay our bills on time, they will come around and begin to disconnect supply to our homes. And one thing I have noticed is that they will never deduct those days they never supply electricity when computing the bills. “I can safely say that they enjoy cutting people off from electricity supply at a period like this. It is a recurring decimal. “ The company, in a letter to Ijede residents, informed them that the current supply interruption was as a result of a fault on the 33KV feeder, which supplies electricity to the area. It noted that power supply would be restored to the area as soon as the engineers were able to resolve the issue. The letter read in part, “The current supply interruption is as a result of a fault on the Ijede 33KV feeder supplying your vicinity. Our engineers are currently working to resolve this. “Please be assured that supply will be restored as soon as the maintenance is completed.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    