Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Adara Community under the platform of the Adara Development Association on Wednesday expressed their opposition to the reopening and reconstruction of the Kasuwan Magani in the Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The Kasuwan Magani in the troubled Kajuru LG was destroyed during a clash in the community, which claimed several lives in February 2018. The state government had in August set up a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate the violent conflict and killings in Kajuru and Kachia local government areas of the state. However, the Adara Association kicked against the move to reopen or reconstruct the multi-billion naira market. They said they considered such move as “highly insensitive and provocative”, thereby sustaining an already volatile atmosphere. A letter dated November 14, written by the association and addressed to Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, noted that the reopening and reconstruction of the market was the least concern of the troubled community. Signatories to the letter included ADA’s national President, Awemi Dio Maisamari and the Assistant Secretary,  Luke Waziri. The association also said it considered as more troubling the fact that their leaders recently released from detention were being constantly threatened with “arrest and detention to withdraw their opposition, which enabled the market to be reopened.” “Events like that consistently show how Adara community and its people have been rendered irrelevant in their only homeland and their interests, needs, wishes, views and concerns systematically ignored or suppressed,” the association said. “The suffering of IDPs and other crisis victims, the assassination of HRH Agom Adara, the scrapping of Adara Chiefdom, the partitioning of Adara community into two and the subordination of our people in Kachia LGA under a proposed Kachia Chiefdom. “The subordination of the predominantly Christian population in Kajuru LGA under a tiny minority Muslim population in Kajuru Emirate and the refusal of government to engage with or, at least, be sensitive to the concerns and feelings of the community in any way during this dark period.” The ADA added that while all the concerns and true representatives of Adara community are being deliberately and contemptuously ignored, the wishes and interests of Hausa/Fulani Muslim residents of our community were being aggressively promoted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 