Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe A Bureau De Change operator, Jude Muomah, was on Tuesday arraigned before the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos for allegedly defrauding two of his customers of $50.02m and N22m. It was gathered that Muomah defrauded one Ngozi Ifenyinwa and Ekwueme Onyebuchi of the sums on the pretext of helping them send the money to their customers. PUNCH Metro learnt that Muomah collected $50.02m from Ifenyinwa on the pretext of sending it to her customers, whose names were given as Moshuri and Campucell, and collected N22m from Onyebuchi ostensibly to send to his suppliers in Dubai. Muomah was arraigned by the police from the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department before Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo on seven counts bordering on stealing and obtaining under false pretences. He pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecutor, Morufu Animashaun, said Muomah and others at large committed the offences on May 25, 2019, at No. 10 Olawaiye Street, Anifowoshe, Ikeja, Lagos. Animashaun told the court that Muomah disappeared after defrauding his victims and that when they could not locate him, the victims reported the alleged fraud to his office. According to Animashaun, the offences contravene sections 8(a) and 1(c) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 of 2006 and are punishable under Section 1(3) of the same Act and Section 390 (9) of the Criminal Code Act, Cap C38, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. Following the guilty plea of the defendant, Animashaun asked for a trial date and urged the court to remand him till the determination of the case. Responding to the plea of the prosecutor, the defendant’s counsel, Anthony Mukoro, said he had just been briefed about the case and urged the court to grant a short adjournment to enable him file the bail application. After listening to both parties, Justice Oguntoyinbo adjourned the matter till March 10 and 11, 2020, for trial and ordered that the accused be remanded in a correctional centre till when his bail application would be filed and determined. READ ALSO: Six injured, shops destroyed in Delta gas explosion The charges Muomah was arraigned on read in part, “That you, Jude Muomah, and others now at large, on the aforesaid date, place and within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, with intent to defraud, obtained $50.02m from one Ngozi Ifenyinwa, property of Mercy Nwankwo, under the pretext that you would transfer the money to her customers, one Moshuri and Campucell, a representation you knew to be false as you fraudulently converted the said sum to your own use, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 1(c) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 of 2006 and punishable under Section 1(3) of the same Act. “That you, Jude Muomah, and others now at large, on May 24, 2019, at the aforesaid place and within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did by false pretences and with intent to defraud, obtain N22,000,000 from one Ekwueme Onyebuchi under the pretext that you would assist to transfer the money to his supplier in Dubai, a representation you knew to be false, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 1(c) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 of 2006 and punishable under Section 1(3) of the same Act.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 