Toluwalope Kareem
swag@punchng.com
08130609523 The Central Bank of Nigeria, under the leadership of Godwin Emefiele, has recorded a number of policies, which have a direct bearing on the viability or otherwise of the nation’s economy. One of such policies is the cashless policy. According to the CBN, Nigeria must join the rest of the world in the practice of a cashless economy. In other words, cash transactions must reduce, if not completely done away with, while electronic transactions must be adopted by all. Where cash transactions are inevitable, the cash in circulation must be controlled by the apex bank. In support of this cashless policy, the CBN imposed some charges on cash deposits and withdrawals as well as on transactions done on automated teller machines. However, the CBN began to contradict itself when it was reported in some national dailies that, in a bid to generate revenue for the Buhari regime, Nigerians must begin to pay the sum of N50 as stamp duty for every transaction done through the point of sales machines. This new directive has since been in effect. If, for example, an individual makes as many as 20 purchases via POS machines in a day, such an individual would be charged N50 on each of the purchases, thereby parting with as much as N1000 of his/her hard-earned money. What offence has this individual committed other than attempting to ‘go cashless’ as the CBN has been preaching to us? Few days ago, the CBN came up with what some Nigerians have referred to as a ‘Christmas bonus’, but which I believe is a further contradiction to the supposed cashless economy being sold to us. Formerly, interbank ATM withdrawals attracted a N65 charge on each transaction after the third transaction in a month. But with the new ‘guideline’, there is a reduction of charges from N65 to N35. Here is the contradiction: If I would be charged N50 for stamp duty on each transaction I make via POS machines (I make a lot of them daily) and would be charged N35 for interbank ATM withdrawals after the third withdrawal in a month, wouldn’t I rather choose the latter and go ahead to make my purchases with cash? That way, the purpose of the cashless policy is defeated. The CBN needs to review its policies to avoid such contradictions and ultimately to cushion the effect of the already harsh economy on Nigerians. It is also worthy of note that, as reported by some dailies on December 24, 2019, the CBN has directed consumers to refuse to pay the imposed N50 stamp duty to merchants, claiming that it is the merchants that are required to pay the said stamp duty to the CBN. This directive is laughable. Perhaps one needs to let the CBN know that it is not within the powers of consumers to help it implement/enforce its policies. If the CBN is serious about this, it must be ready to enforce and implement it, after all no merchant was charging consumers for stamp duty until the ambiguous directive was given by the CBN. The CBN must, therefore, take full responsibility of its errors and contradictions and work on, and enforce, a reversal of its anti-people policies. Sam Bolaji Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    