Ade Adesomoju, Abuja About 22 former governors are either on trial or facing investigations over corruption allegations, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), has said. Malami, who spoke at a meeting with journalists at his office in Abuja on Thursday, did not name the affected former governors. When asked, the minister also said he could not comment on the fate of his predecessor, Mr Mohammed Adoke (SAN), who arrived Nigeria from Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, and immediately arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Thursday. The minister, who sought the support of journalists in the fight against corruption, said, “the failure to address corruption inhibits sustainable long growth which undermines national development”. He also said the regime’s fight against corruption “is total, comprehensive and dispassionate devoid of any political or ethnic sentiments or inclination.” According to him, the EFCC from 2015 to September 2019 convicted  1, 636 persons involved in corruption related offences. He also referred to the conviction of former governors Orji Kalu of Abia State, Joshua Dariye of Plateau State, and Jolly Nyame of Taraba State, who are currently serving jail terms for corruption. He added, “It might interest you to note that former state governors and even serving senators are not spared. “Currently, high profile personalities including judicial officers and former governors indicted for corruption have been prosecuted and many sentenced to jail. READ ALSO: Court granted forfeiture of Yar’Adua, others’ properties — ICPC “We have three former governors convicted and serving various jail terms for corruption related crimes while in office. Equally, 22 ex-governors are either under probe or on trial.” He also said the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had also created a central database for recovered stolen assets under the control of his office. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 