Nike Popoola The pioneering Director-General, National Pension Commission, Mr Muhammad Ahmad, has urged the operators to introduce measures to reduce the effect of inflation on workers’ pension contributions. He said this while making a presentation on ‘The pension industry – the way forward’. Ahmad said, “There is a need to ensure that contributors and retirees do not suffer unduly for the depreciation of the naira over the years. “For instance, in 2012, one dollar exchanged for an average of N170. Today, one dollar exchanges for an average of N360. What this means is that the pension contributors have had the value of their contributions eroded by over 100 per cent in that period of no fault of yours or the fund managers.” Ahmad, who is also the chairman of Polaris Bank, said it was necessary for the Federal Government to prioritise the payment of accrued rights of retirees. Although the government had been religiously paying the monthly pension contributions based on the old rates, he said it had not been able to meet up with the adequate and regular payment of accrued pension rights. He observed that this was causing untold hardship and pain to many who had been waiting for years for their Retirement Savings Accounts to be funded appropriately. “This is non-negotiable and we should constantly bring this up at every opportunity until these accrued rights are funded by the government,” Ahmad said. Although the National Pension Commission had been statutorily empowered by the Pension Reform Act 2014 to direct the Accountant General of the Federation to deduct at source unpaid accrued pension rights, he said that the power had never been exercised because of political constraints. The continued success of the pension industry would largely be hinged on the ability of the employers to honour their obligations as and when due, he said. Ahmad said that in the recent past, members of the National Assembly had assisted in getting the government to accelerate the payment of arrears of accrued pension rights. He mentioned that it would appear another tier of unpaid obligations had been built and the industry would once again require the collective efforts of all stakeholders for timely payment of the accrued rights. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    