Deji Lambo Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested three suspected Internet fraudsters,  Olaide Salami, Olamide Adeyemi and a yet-to-be-identified female accomplice, for alleged possession of illegal substances suspected to be hard drugs in the Ikeja area of the state. The suspects were said to be driving a Toyota Corolla car with number plate KSF 462 FT when a police patrol team from the Area ‘F’ Command intercepted them on the Opebi Link Bridge. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that when the vehicle was searched, some substances suspected to be hard drugs were recovered from it. He stated that further investigation revealed that the suspects were Internet fraudsters, adding that they would be charged. Elkana said, “On Saturday, December 21, 2019, around 4pm, a police patrol team from the Area ‘F’ Command, Ikeja, at a pin-down point on the Opebi Link Bridge, Ikeja, intercepted one Toyota Corolla with number plate KSF 462 FT, with two male occupants, Salami Olaide and Olamide Adeyemi, and a female. “Upon reasonable suspicion, the vehicle and the occupants were searched and some substances suspected to be hard drugs were recovered from them. Investigation also revealed that the suspects were into cybercrime. There is no evidence so far linking the female arrested together with the two male suspects to their nefarious activities. The suspects will soon be charged.” In another development, a security guard, Milacasupl Jackson, and his accomplices, Peter Alfons and Mustapha Usman, have been apprehended by men of the command for allegedly stealing a Toyota Sienna 2008 model in the Agidingbi area of the state. Elkana, who said the car was valued at N2.6m, stated that the suspects were arrested while negotiating with a buyer, adding that the vehicle had been recovered and handed over to the owner. READ ALSO: RRS operatives arrest interstate robbery suspects He stated, “On Wednesday, December 18, 2019, around 2pm, one Adeyankinnu Babajide, who is the manager of Teeded Motors on Plot 7 Fagba Close, Agidingbi, Ikeja, reported at the Alausa Police Station that on Monday, December 9, 2019, around 8.30pm, he discovered that a Toyota Sienna 2008 model valued at N2.6m was missing and the security guard, who had the key to the car, was also not seen. “Police detectives traced the vehicle to the Kurata Mechanic Village, Agidingbi, Ikeja. The security guard, Milacasupl Jackson, and his accomplices, Peter Alfons and Mustapha Usman, were arrested while negotiating with a buyer.” Meanwhile, six suspects, Morufu Adebusi, Masadu Shaibu, Alalehu Mohammed, Chuka Nwefor, Usman Aliyu and a yet-to-be-identified deaf and dumb person have been arrested for attacking one Emmanuel Awotayo at Mile 12, Ketu. Elkana added that the suspects would be charged at the conclusion of investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 