Samson Folarin Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said the Lagos State Vehicle Inspection Service will now discharge its statutory duties with the use of technology. He noted that the digital initiatives would complement other electronic services introduced in the transportation sector to boost the state’s capacity to become a smart city and transform the economy. Sanwo-Olu spoke on Tuesday during the inauguration of the new operational headquarters of the VIS with full automation of its activities. While opening the building, the governor said there had been improvement in the implementation of the state’s traffic laws with the introduction of the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and the Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Services (LACVIS). He said, “Vehicles that break down are major contributors to traffic gridlock in Lagos, which result in avoidable losses of productive life and time. We must minimise this destructive breakdown of unworthy vehicles through strict enforcement of relevant laws aided by the application of modern technology.” The governor said the objective of the automated system was to ensure that enforcement of transportation laws did not impact negatively on the flow of traffic. The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Fredric Oladehinde, described the feat as “another giant stride” by the Sanwo-Olu administration. He added that the new office would provide a conducive working environment for VIS officers and enhance their operational efficiency. Oladehinde disclosed that the state government had completed four additional LACVIS centres at Ojota, Yaba, Olowu and Ibeju Lekki, bringing the number to 16 across the state. He added that the use of ANPR in the enforcement of vehicles’ documentation had brought down the frequency of heavy gridlock associated with the operation of VIS officers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    