Matthew Ochei, Asaba The suspected leader of a notorious criminal gang and killer of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s aide in Delta State, one Ekugbo Kingsley, has been killed in a shoot-out with operatives of the police command in the state. The deceased suspect and his gang members were believed to be responsible for a series of kidnappings and robberies across the state. The Public Relations Officer Delta state, DSP Onome Onowakpoyeya, who confirmed the death of the suspect in a statement, said the deceased was believed to be responsible for the murder of a former aide to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, late Lawrence Akpomiemie Ngozi Ijieh, in February during the 2019 general election. Onowkpoyeya noted that the 27-year-old deceased suspect was also believed to be responsible for the murders of one Obus Sophrum killed at Igbiki in August 2019, and one Oghene killed at Iyara, Warri three months ago, amongst others. READ ALSO: Osun REC nominee rejected by Senate over APC membership She said Ekugbo was trailed by the anti-kidnapping unit of the command to his hideout in Ubeji community where he opened fire on the operatives who responded swiftly with superior firepower Onowakpoyeya said, “The deceased was responsible for several killings, which included the murders of one Obus Sophrum, who was killed at Igbiki in same council area on August 29, 2019, one Lawrence Akpomiemie Ngozi Ijieh, former Special Assistance to the state Governor who was killed in the month of February, 2019 shortly before the 2019 general election and one Oghene killed at Iyara, Warri on September 17, 2019 amongst others. “On sighting the police, the suspect opened fire and the police responded with superior firepower. “In the ensuing gun battle, the suspect sustained gunshot wound. He was pursued, arrested and rushed to the police clinic in Warri but was later confirmed dead in the hospital. One locally made pistol with three live cartridges was recovered from him.” Onowakpoyeya said the suspect has been on the wanted list of the command for various crimes. Police said that the body has been deposited at the Central Hospital Mortuary in Agbor for autopsy.