FEMI MAKINDE examines the crisis triggered by the Peoples Democratic Party’s loss in the Bayelsa State governorship election and how accusations of disloyalty among its top chieftains are threatening to put the party in shreds It is certain that the Peoples Democratic Party has not come out fully from the political quagmire it found itself in the build up to the 2019 presidential primary election. And the noticeable crack in the former ruling party seems to be getting wider with the verdict of the Supreme Court on the petition of the party’s candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar against the election of the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari, which held that the former vice president’s petition lacked merit. There are obvious signs that the main opposition party, which used to pride itself as the biggest political party in Africa, has been having crises in some states of the federation. The party’s loss of one of its strongholds, Bayelsa State, to the All Progressives Congress in the just concluded staggered governorship election, came to many as a huge surprise.  Its loss of Kogi State governorship election to the APC in the governorship election same day was seen as another tragedy. However, the electoral loss in Bayelsa State, which is the base of the immediate past President Goodluck Jonathan, is threatening to tear further the PDP umbrella. The anger against Jonathan is understandable. The former president had been a deputy and governor of the state on the ticket of the PDP. He was also elected with his late principal, Umaru Ya’Adua, as vice president. Jonathan, who later assumed office when the former Governor of Katsina State died, was later elected President, also as the flag bearer of the PDP. Even when Atiku was picked as the party’s presidential candidate in 2019, Jonathan was among the numerous adherent of the party, who campaigned vigorously for the party and its candidate.  His resentment against the Governor of his state, Seriake Dickson prior to the election was never in hidden. Surprisingly, it was Jonathan that foisted Dickson on the party and the state when the former President made sure that the then Governor of the state, Timipre Syla was denied second term. Both Jonathan and Dickson had supported different governorship aspirants before Senator Douye Diri emerged the party’s standard bearer in the poll. While Diri was backed by Dickson, a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe, was Jonathan’s choice. Although Jonathan denied involvement in any anti-party activity, many believed that he did not support Diri. The former President was also absent in the state-wide campaign by Diri and Dickson. He also did not make himself available on many occasions when the governor attempted to present the PDP candidate to him. Observers believed that the governorship result from Jonathan’s Ogbia Local Government Area was enough testimony that the former president was never in support of the party’s choice of candidate. In the local government result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission, the PDP candidate polled 13,763 votes, while the APC candidate scored 58,016 votes. The APC defeated the PDP in Jonathan’s ward, including the polling unit, thereby making people to insinuate that Jonathan might have given his tacit support to the APC. During the PDP primary, Jonathan was said to have supported Alaibe because of his alleged popularity while Dickson supported Diri. However, Jonathan’s preferred choice failed in his bid to clinch the PDP ticket. The contest generated bad blood and some claimed that Jonathan refused to support the PDP candidate because of the alleged imperfect way the primary election was said to have been conducted. The ruling party in the state went into the election divided and because of this and some other factors, the party lost its stranglehold in the oil-rich state for the first time since democratic rule started in 1999. The result of the poll was shocking to many and this made the incumbent governor and other PDP leaders to allege overwhelming malpractices, apart from the backstabbing by notable members of the party. Dickson, while addressing journalists after the poll, said the APC leaders visited Jonathan to legitimise the alleged electoral fraud they committed during the election. But Jonathan has come under fire from some leaders of the party including former Jigawa State Governor, Sule Lamido, who accused him of allegedly bargaining his state to the APC so that the Buhari government would not prosecute him for his alleged complicity in the Malabu oil deal. The PDP Elders Forum led by Chief Benson Odoko also accused Jonathan of negotiating the PDP with the APC so that he would not be prosecuted for corruption cases. The party’s elders called on the party to punish the former president for alleged anti-party activities which they said contributed greatly to the trouncing of the party in the state with the sobriquet’ Glory of all lands.’ Odoko said, “The forum was shocked when Jonathan and his wife donated the Aridolf Hotel to the APC as the operational contact point for visiting dignitaries of the party and as the venue for the party’s controversial primaries. “These actions of Jonathan clearly portray him as a betrayer of the PDP which gave him the platform to occupy the highest positions in the country, Bayelsa State, and millions of the PDP members just to protect his selfish interest. The argument that Jonathan worked against the PDP because his preferred candidate, Chief Timi Alaibe, lost in the primaries was a pathetic perfidy meant to cover up the real reasons for this betrayal against Bayelsans and Nigerians.” Lamido on his part alleged that Jonathan who is from Otuoke in the state traded off his party in order to be shielded from the Malabu oil deal prosecution. Lamido alleged that the Buhari administration held Jonathan by the balls and the former president was forced to trade off the governorship seat in his state  so that he would be spared from prosecution concerning the Malabu oil scam which he claimed to know very well. But reacting to the allegations, Jonathan said it was disingenuous for his alleged traducers to accuse him of supporting the APC candidate, David Lyon, at the expense of Diri.  Jonathan, who spoke through his Media Adviser, Ikechukwu Eze, said accusing him of anti-party activities without investigating the real cause of the party’s electoral woes was detrimental to the aspirations of the party. Eze said, “Jonathan would want to counsel Lamido and others in his shoes to look at their national passports. They would see that their citizenship is Nigeria. We are first Nigerians before we are members of any political party or social organisation. If Lamido does not know that, then it is a pity. “We chose to make this clarification just to set the record straight, especially as a number of the former President’s close associates have been asking questions about the blatant statement credited to  Lamido.” A member of the Board of Trustees of the PDP, Alhaji Shuaibu Oyedokun, in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, blamed the situation in Bayelsa State on lack of internal democracy and disloyalty to the party. He said the BoT had set up a committee to look into the crisis in order to solve it and prevent further damage to the party. Oyedokun said, “The situation which the party finds itself in Bayelsa State in particular which has been a stronghold of the PDP is a very messy one. There are claims between Jonathan and the governor of the state. But what we, in the surface of it, can see is a product of not only disloyalty to the party on both sides, but a gruesome problem of lack of internal democracy. “I personally see it as one of the by-products of the excessive nature of our governors who alway try to play God. Governors, especially the out-going ones, want to be succeeded by stooges. But reasonable party elders would not want that, they would want good candidates who can deliver. In this type of situation where there is a struggle for power and influence, there must be conflict. I think what happened in Bayelsa between Jonathan, Dickson, other aspirants and other party leaders is that conflict. “As it is, it is the National Executive Committee of the party that should look into it but the Board of Trustees has been proactive, it has met over the matter and set up a committee known as Quick Intervention Committee and the meeting was held on November 21. We want to look into it meticulously without causing any further damage to the party. I am sure that the National Working Committee of our party will do something to look into it and proffer solution. But anything done now is after the milk has been spilt. The damage has been done and it is just be a lesson for the future. What we are trying to do now is damage control.’’ One of the leaders of the party in the state, Mr Denzil Amagbe Kentebe, conversely exonerated Jonathan of the allegations of disloyalty to the party in an interview with Sunday PUNCH. He said, “I will say it categorically that Jonathan will not work against the party that gave him the platform to occupy the highest elective position in this country. He will not do that.  In other states which has the sitting President or a former one, no one dares challenge them when they are in the same party. “Jonathan, as a democrat, has kept quiet because of his humility so that there won’t be friction in the state. Having said that, the only way we can prevent this kind of things from happening is that we must begin to build institutions and not individuals. “The party structure must be superior to anybody whether a governor or even President. When you have good party structures in place and there is transparency which was what Jonathan was asking for, then there won’t be problem.  In fact, all political parties must have good internal democracy. Whether in the APC or the PDP, if there is no internal democracy, we won’t get the best and we will continue to have this type of problem. “With internal democracy in all the parties, then good leaders who will work to develop the nation and each of the states and councils will emerge. But we must not continue to use fraudulent and violent ways to pick those who will lead us. We should build institutions and ensure that there is presence of internal democracy and this is what Jonathan has always been championing.” Speaking on the treachery allegation, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr Diran Odeyemi, said the party did not see Jonathan as a disloyal party leader. He said Jonathan, as a former president, had always demonstrated sterling qualities of statesmen. The party’s spokesperson said Jonathan called Buhari to congratulate him when he lost election in 2015, saying the party did not see anything wrong in the governor-elect’s visit to the former president. Odeyemi said, “Now that the party lost in Bayelsa, we don’t see anything wrong in Lyon’s visit to him (Jonathan). That is not an interpretation that he worked for the APC against the PDP in the election. There has not been any evidence to convince the party that he actually engaged in anti- party activities. There is no evidence that he worked against the party. “The BoT met last week and concluded that there should be a committee to look into the allegations. The committee will come back with a report that will guide the party on how to go about it. We cannot pick allegations from social media that Jonathan or someone was involved in anti-party activities.” As it stands, the PDP appears to be a divided house that needs to quickly put machinery in motion towards uniting top chieftains and members ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is not going to be an easy task considering the calibre of top party men involve in this division. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 