Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday said it had not taken a final decision on the suspension of the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Ndudi Elumelu, and five other members of the lower chamber of the National Assembly because the Chief Tom Ikimi-led Disciplinary Committee had yet to submit its report. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, disclosed this in an interview with our correspondent. Ologbondiyan who said the committee had yet to submit its report to the National Working Committee stated that the party could only take a decision on the fate of Elumelu and five others when it received the report. He said, “We are waiting for the report of the Tom Ikimi National Disciplinary Committee. They have not sent the report. The report is not before the NWC. “When they bring the report, the NWC will then consider their report. Whatever decision that will be taken will be based on the consideration of the report but it (the report) is not before us yet.” The PDP NWC had on July 5 suspended Elumelu and five other members of the House of Representatives for one month for alleged “indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of the party’s directives.” The suspension, however, has lasted for over five months. The other PDP members suspended with Elumelu are member representing Oriade/Obokun Federal  Constituency of Osun State,  Wole Oke; member representing Onitsha North and Onitsha South Federal Constituency,  Lynda Ikpeazu; member representing Ezza North/Ishielu Federal Constituency,  Anayo Edwin; member representing Kaura Federal Constituency election in Kaduna State, Gideon Gwani (Minority Whip), member representing Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State, Toby Okechukwu  (Deputy Minority Leader) and member representing Ijebu-North / Ijebu-East / Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, Adekoya Abdul-Majid. Sequel to their suspension, the PDP NWC constituted two committees: the Senator Iyorchia Ayu Committee and the Ikimi Disciplinary Committee. Ayu’s committee was set up to investigate the emergence of Elumelu as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives contrary to the nomination of the party. Other members of the committee included  Senator Adolphus Wabara; Senator David Mark;  a former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, and a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara,  who later exited from the committee. READ ALSO: Again, PDP tackles APC over unemployment rate The Chairman of the PDP Board of Trustees, Senator Walid Jibrin, had on October 8 confirmed that the report of the Ayu Committee had been submitted to the PDP NWC through the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus. The Ikimi Committee was saddled with the responsibility of looking into the recommendations of the Ayu’sc committee and suggesting to the PDP NWC appropriate action to be taken. The PDP had in a letter dated June 21, addressed to the Speaker, Mr  Femi Gbajamiabila,  nominated member representing Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency, Mr  Kingsley Chinda, as  the minority leader of the House of Representatives. Others nominated by the party included; Chukwuka Onyema (Deputy Minority Leader); Yakubu Barde (Minority Whip) and Muraina Ajibola (Deputy Minority Whip). The letter was signed by Secondus and Tsauri. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 