Peter Dada, Akure Three days after running away, the Ondo State Police Command, on Thursday, said it had arrested the policeman, who allegedly shot dead a truck driver in Uso on the Akure-Owo Expressway in Owo Local Government Area of the state. The alleged killer cop, identified as Sergeant Idowu Omosuyi, attached to the Federal Highway Patrol, allegedly shot the driver, Ado Saleh, in the head following an argument that ensued between them on Monday. The incident had led to a protest by other truck drivers and residents of the town, who demanded that the killer policeman must be brought to justice. Omosuyi was alleged to have dropped his gun and ran away immediately after committing the crime and was declared wanted by the command. Five other members of the team had already been arrested and were being detained at the command’s headquarters in Akure. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, said in a statement that the culprit reported at the command headquarters and was already facing orderly room trial. The statement read in part, “The Ondo State Police Command is pleased to inform the general public that the errant policeman, Sergeant Idowu Omosuyi, who shot and killed a haulage driver at a checkpoint in Uso, near Owo, a few days ago, has turned himself in. “He surrendered himself this afternoon (Thursday) to a team of investigators constituted by the Commissioner of Police, Ondo State, to probe the incident. He is presently undergoing orderly room trial at the state command headquarters, Akure. This development will no doubt enable us to conclude our investigation speedily and charge the suspect as soon as possible.” The statement added that the command would never shield any of its personnel who committed any infraction or illegality. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     