Peter Dada, Akure Residents of Iwaro-Oka Akoko in Akoko South-West Local Government Area of Ondo State on Saturday took to major streets of the town to protest against the incessant road accidents in the town, allegedly caused by trailers and trucks. The protesters called on the state government to stop trucks from plying their roads, following the havoc allegedly being caused by the trailers on the road which had led to the death of many residents of the town. The protesters were armed with placards with various inscriptions such as, ‘Don’t turn our community into ghost town’, ‘Our lives matter, no solution, no peace’, ‘we are tired of accidents on Akungba-Oka Road’. ‘ODSG construct alternative road on Akungba Oka Road’ ‘Incessant accidents make us homeless among others. The protesters, who barricaded the Akungba Iwaro-Oka Akoko Road, preventing vehicular movements for several hours, said they had lost thousands of lives and properties worth millions of naira to the incessant accidents. The Chairman of Iwaro Oka Community Union, Mr Dele Ologbese, who commented on the development, said the union decided to organise the protest due to menace caused by heavy-duty trucks. Ologbese said, “The town has been suffering economically due to farmers neglecting their farmlands for fear of being involved in tanker accidents.” He urged the state government to put permanent barricades against heavy-duty vehicles and provide alternate routes for them. Similarly, the Reagent of the Asin of Iwaro Oka, Princess Adekemi Omorinbola, complained that the rate of accident on the road was high and that the complaints of the people of the town had been falling on deaf ears of the government. She urged the government to profer a lasting solution to the problem in order to save the lives of the people. “We are here because the accident is too much in this area, we can’t sleep with one eye closed, let alone the two eyes, it is affecting our people economically and psychologically. We don’t have light, trailers have destroyed this town for us,” she lamented. In his reaction, the Chairman of the Akoko Southwest Local Government, Mr Dapo Fasesin, said the governor had promised to solve the problem of heavy vehicles’ accident in the town, noting that the Iwaro Oka Road was part of the first projects embarked upon by the present administration. He appealed to the people of the community to believe the promise of the governor that solution would be preferred to the incessant accidents.