Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command and some suspected land-grabbers clashed on Wednesday at Ewujomo village, via Igbosoro, Ogijo, in the Sagamu Local Government Area of the state. The suspected land-grabbers had invaded Ewujomo and reportedly unleashed terror on the residents of the area over a disputed land but, were chased away by policemen attached to the Ogijo Police Station. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the clash in a statement. Oyeyemi said 10 members of the land-grabbing syndicate were arrested by the police, adding that the suspects specialised in unleashing terror on innocent residents of the state. He added that the suspects, Ismaila Lawal, Tope Oniyide, Sodiq Lawal, Ahmed Olaringbe, Gafar Kafo, Ismaila Haruna, Okanlawon Olabinjo, Kamoru Arulogun, Suleiman Oresesun and Kazeem Oresesun, were arrested following a distress call received by the police. According to Oyeyemi, the hoodlums armed themselves with weapons and invaded the village on motorcycles, creating panic among the villagers, who ran helter-skelter. He stated, “Upon receiving the information, the DPO, Ogijo Division, CSP Suleiman Muhammed, mobilised his men and moved to the scene. “On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums, whose actions, had thrown the community into pandemonium, started shooting indiscriminately but were overpowered by the police, who succeeded in apprehending 10 members of the syndicate, while the others escaped with gunshot injuries. “Recovered from the arrested suspects were two live cartridges, two expended cartridges, expended Brownie pistol ammunition, charms and three Bajaj motorcycles.” Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. According to him, the CP, who praised the gallantry displayed by the cops, warned that anybody with criminal intent would not find a safe haven in Ogun State. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     