Afeez Hanafi She clutched the beautiful picture frame and stared passionately at the images therein. Mrs Muslimat Fashola took the shot four years ago with her family members to mark her 60th birthday. It was meant to document memories of bond and fondness inherent in the household and that had been so until in the early hours of Saturday, November 30 when the tragic death of Ola Oyeshina – an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority – threw the family into grief. Having nurtured Oyeshina for about three decades following the death of his mother, Fashola looked forward to that glamorous occasion when she would pride herself on fulfilling the role of a foster mum and see  the 34-year-old walks down the aisle. Sadly, her expectation, like a pack of cards, shattered with Oyeshina’s death. The late official and his team were on an operation at Iganmu-Sifax, Apapa, to rid the area of  trucks parked indiscriminately there when  they were attacked by some hoodlums. While his colleagues escaped, he was not lucky as one of the thugs smashed a big stone on his face. He was rushed to Randle Hospital, Surulere – some distance away from his residence on Oni Street – and was later referred to Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba where he breathed his last around 1am. That fateful Friday evening when  Oyeshina was battling to hang on to life, Fashola, who now resides with her husband in Ikorodu, was on a visit to Oni Street, waiting patiently for her adopted son to return from work. She had no inkling of the gravity of sorrow lurking in the shadows. “I had attended a friend’s party on Cole Street (Lagos Mainland) on Thursday and I used that opportunity to visit our family house in Surulere on Friday evening,” she explained, looking forlorn and nervous. “As I was coming into the compound, I shouted, ‘LASTMA Shina’ as usual, thinking he was in his room. If he was at home, he would have responded by calling me, ‘nourishing mother.’ That was around 6pm; I never knew he had been attacked then. “I became worried when it was 11pm and he had not returned home. Surprisingly, I called his line and a family member known as Lekan answered the call. He said Shina was responding to treatment. I asked him what was wrong and he said Shina was attacked. “Lekan and other family members returned home around 2am. They didn’t tell me he was dead. When it was 6am, I stood up to go to LUTH but they told me to wait an hour more. On my way to the hospital, two of my friends met me outside and led me back to the compound to break the sad news. My expectation was to witness the day he would get married; not his death,” she recalled as tears welled up her face. Narrating the fond memories she shared with the late Oyeshina, Fashola stated that only few people knew she was not his biological mother. She said the most painful imprint his demise left on her was that he had no child she could bond with to sustain the love. Fashola stated, “His parents used to be our tenants. They were from Osogbo (Osun State) but both of them died several years ago. I had been acting as her mother since his parents were alive. He was four years old when his mother died. Later, his father relocated and took him to Shitta (a neighbourhood in Surulere). “He left Shitta and came to our house. Since then, he had been living with us. He had all his education here, from primary to the tertiary level. His parents and my family are not related at all but it was like I am his biological mother. When I bought clothes for my children, I bought the same type for him too. He had blended with our family so well that he told my husband that he wanted to change his surname to Fashola. “The only thing he did that pained me most was his failure to get married on time and have a child. About one month ago when he was on leave, he came to visit me in Ikorodu. I told him that if he came next time without bringing along his fiancée, I would not allow him to enter. I would have been happy if he had a child that would be around me.” The sexagenarian urged government to ensure that the perpetrators of the dastardly act – two of whom had been arrested and arraigned – be brought to book. “All I want is justice must take its cause. And if the government fails to do so, the Almighty God will do,” she added. Her son, Wole, told City Round that until much later, he had thought Adeshina was his elder brother. Wole, who works at the General Hospital, Apapa, said he was on his way home from work around 5pm on Friday, when he saw the hoodlums attacking LASTMA officials. Unknown to him, his foster brother’s  life  was at stake. He said, “I got home exhausted only for me to get a call from his friend around 7pm. He told me my brother was unconscious and that he was being taken to LUTH from Randle Hospital. One of my cousins, Mr Lekan, and I went to LUTH immediately to see him. He was bleeding uncontrollably from the nose and was vomiting. He was shouting, ‘I need help.’ “We were running around buying drugs and other things needed for his treatment. It was around 2am that my wife who went to check him discovered he had stopped breathing. “I would blame LUTH officials for their attitude to work. I don’t understand why someone would get hit by a stone in the nose region around 5pm and treatment would not start until around 10.30pm. The people who took him to LUTH said they almost fought  with the officials before they could secure a bed space for him.” Wole described Oyeshina as a fantastic person and jolly good fellow whose death had left a huge vacuum no one could fill. He added, “My relationship with Shina was more like that of blood brothers. In fact, I grew up to know him as my elder brother. We wear the same clothes to events and the bond was so real. “I have not had a good sleep since that Friday. We grew up like twins and many people didn’t know we were not biological brothers. “He was fun to be with but was not lucky to have a serious relationship. He was ready to get married. “We don’t want this case to be like other previous cases swept under the carpet. whereby we would not get to the root of the matter. All we want is justice.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 