SAMPSON ITODE Tragedy struck in Rumuekini community, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State on Thursday as an electronics dealer, Chris Achor, allegedly committed suicide in his apartment. Achor was said to have taken his own life after drinking a poisonous insecticide called Sniper. It was learnt that Achor, who was in his early 40s, allegedly ingested the poisonous substance in the night before sleeping. An empty bottle of the poison was said to have been found in his room alongside his corpse on Thursday morning. It was gathered that his neighbours, who suspected that all was not well after he failed to come out of his house in the morning, became restless and raised the alarm. They forced his door open and discovered that he was dead. A resident of the community told our correspondent who visited the scene of the incident that calls were put across to the deceased’s family members, who later took the corpse to a mortuary. A source in the community, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said no suicide note was found in the deceased’s apartment, making the motive behind his action to be unclear. The source said, “When I heard that something bad had happened, I rushed to the scene of the incident and saw that the place was already crowded. I was told that our friend didn’t wake up this morning. “His door was forced open and his body was found dead close to an empty bottle of Sniper, which we suspect he drank. Some neighbours called his girlfriend, who informed his people.” Another source told Sunday PUNCH that the deceased had a quarrel with his girlfriend after he invited her over in the night, but she refused to show up. “Achor got very upset the night before his death after he invited his girlfriend to visit him, but she refused, insisting she was going to visit him in the morning. When she finally got to his place in the morning, the door was locked and all phone calls put across to him were not answered. “She got worried and raised the alarm, which attracted the neighbours, who forced the door open and found him dead with bottles of drinks as well as an empty bottle of Sniper,” the source stressed. When contacted, the Rivers State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Nnamdi Omoni, said he had yet to be briefed on the incident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    