The former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Attahiru Jega, has advised African countries to restrategise their approaches in fighting corruption. Jega gave the advise while reviewing a book titled: “Curbing Electoral Spending” launched by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission on Monday in Abuja. The launch was to mark the 2019 International Anti-Corruption Day organised by the commission in collaboration with Nigeria Shippers Council, Maritime and Transport Stakeholders. “Here in Nigeria, where corruption is in the increase compared to other African countries, we need to take the fight seriously. “It is a day for sober reflection for us and for reviewing our experiences and restrategise to find better ways and means of improving the successes in the fight against corruption,” he said. Jega commended the EFCC for its successes as well as other anti-corruption agencies for their contributions to tackling the crime in the Nigeria. “While we commend them, they also need to intensify their efforts in the fight against corruption because we see that the more effort that is made, the more difficult it becomes. “The EFFCC and other anti-corruption agencies need to continue to demonstrate that there are no sacred cows in the fight against corruption. “We will want to see a rededicated effort in terms of effective utilisation in governance of resource saved from corruption,” Jega added. The Secretary, Presidential Advisory Committee against Corruption, Prof. Sadiq Radda, said fighting corruption required political will and determination of the leaders. Radda said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration had made remarkable success in the fight so far. “I believe, first and foremost, we should acknowledge the political will and the determination of the government led by the president to lead the fight. “Without the support of the president, I think the kind of momentum we have regarding the fight against corruption woudn’t have been this much. “I can say with the EFCC and ICPC of today, looters will have no hiding place in the world, because wherever they go, they will be arrested and brought back to the country,” Radda said. (NAN)