John Ameh and John Alechenu The crisis of confidence rocking the All Progressives Congress as well as litigation arising from some decisions taken by the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the party is largely responsible for the delay in the election of replacements for vacant positions in the NWC. Such vacant positions, include national secretary, departmental directors, national auditor, deputy national chairman (South) and national vice-chairman, North-west. A top-ranking member of the party leadership confided in one of our correspondents in Abuja, on Sunday, that the party was exploring avenues for peace to enable it to forge ahead, The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to jeopardize peace efforts said, “We are seeking for an amicable solution to our internal squabbles so that we can have a win-win situation. “We have cases in court, some of our party men have taken the party and our national chairman to court over some issues, we will want these cases withdrawn to fast-track the peace process. You know we still have some elections coming up.” However, the party’s embattled National Vice Chairman (North), Inuwa Abdulkadir, in a telephone interview with The PUNCH, said his case in court “is still alive” and that he had not been approached by any of the party’s leaders. Although the party’s National Executive Committee did not ratify the decision of the NWC recommending his expulsion from the party, Oshiomhole’s supporters insist that Abdulkadir’s position has become vacant by virtue of the NWC position. But Abdulkadir said, “Our constitution is very clear about these issues, it is very clear about how to go about electing and removing any party official at any level. It gives no room for arbitrariness. “Myself and the Deputy National Chairman (North), Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, stood for elections and we were elected by delegates of our party from all over Nigeria, we contested against other contestants, we were elected unlike those who were anointed. “The APC is bigger than any individual it is a party built on the rule of law and its survival can only be guaranteed by strict adherence to its rules and regulations as contained in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Recall that the trio of Abdulkadir, the Deputy National Chairman (North), Lawal Shuaibu, and the Director General of the Progressive Governor’s Forum, Salihu Lukeman, had at different times written letters urging Oshiomhole to resign, They each passed a vote of no confidence in his leadership citing cases of abuse of office and conducts inimical to the party’s continued existence. It was however gathered that President Muhammadu Buhari has succeeded in buying time for the national chairman to keep his job. READ ALSO: Stop heating up polity, Bayelsa APC tells Dickson It was gathered that after deliberations at the last meeting held by the President, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the state party chairmen at the villa, the President’s team impressed it on those opposed to Oshiomhole to at least allow him complete his current tenure. A source privy to the meeting said, “The President team laid it bare that for now, it would be best to allow the party chairman be because removing him would mean we have to shop for his replacement from Edo State so that we do not alter the zoning arrangement we have put  in place. “There was also this argument that moving against him at this time will likely put the party in a similar situation like we had in Rivers and Zamfara. “It is becoming clearer to some of us that the party chairman wants a second term but governors and other stakeholders are not disposed to that. “After his tenure, the party chairmanship is likely to move to the North-Central preparatory to the 2023 elections,that is the thinking.” ‘Buhari doesn’t want influential members to control APC’ Meanwhile, President Buhari’s desire is for the members of the APC to take full control of the party and not himself or some influential persons, the Presidency said on Sunday. The President said the members should decide the choice of party leaders, adding that this should be done through elections. “Thrice, if you will recall, the President has called for elections to all the offices in the party leadership. “First, at the caucus meeting, which last held two weeks ago, then at the National Executive Committee meeting that followed, and on last Friday when he received the the 36 state chairmen of the party. “Is there a way of resolving leadership disputes, assuming any such conflicts exist in the party, than by each and every party leader going back to their primary constituency for the renewal of their mandate?”, Presidential spokesperson, Mr Garba Shehu, said in reaction to enquiries by The PUNCH on the crisis rocking the APC. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 