Your darling newspaper, The PUNCH, on Sunday reaffirmed its leadership position of the media industry by emerging the Newspaper of the Year at the 28th edition of the Diamond Awards for Media Excellence in Lagos. The PUNCH beat The Nation Newspaper and online medium, Premium Times, which emerged as first and second runners-up, respectively. The PUNCH also clinched five other awards, including Editor of the Year, won by its former Editor, Mr Martin Ayankola. Ayankola beat former Editor, The Nation, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, and Mr Muskilu Mojeed of Premium Times, who were first and second runners-up, respectively. The PUNCH also won the Editorial Writing of the Year Award for its entry, ‘Unchanging narrative of Nigeria’s endemic poverty’ published on March 12, 2018. Nigerian Tribune and The Guardian were adjudged first and second runners-up, respectively. A photojournalist with The PUNCH, Olugbon Saheed, won the News Photography category ahead of Adejumo Kabir of Premium Times, who was first runner-up and Ayodele Adeniran of The Guardian, who was second runner-up. PUNCH cartoonist, Bennet Omeke, won the Editorial Cartooning category with his entry, ‘Power of the broom?’ published on April 4, 2018. He beat Cornelius Emenike of New Telegraph to the award. Lagos Reporting was won by Nicholas Ibekwe of Premium Times while Tope Omogbolagun of Punch’s Weekend Titles and Tunbosun Ogundare of Nigerian Tribune were runners-up. The Nation’s Joseph Jibueze beat The PUNCH’s Ade Adesomoju and Afeez Hanafi to the first and second runners-up positions, respectively while Chioma Obinna of Vanguard Newspaper won in the Nutrition Reporting. Samson Folarin of The PUNCH and The Nation’s Olatunji Ololade were runners-up. Child-friendly  Reporting was won by New Telegraph’s John Chikezie while Jesusegun Alagbe of Punch’s Weekend Titles and Innocent Duru of The Nation were runners-up. Premium Times reporter, Cletus Ukpong, won the Education Reporting while Afeez Hanafi of Punch’s Weekend Titles and Kofoworola Belo-Osagie of The Nation were runners-up. The Editor, Saturday Tribune Lasisi Olagunju, won the Informed Commentary category ahead of Joel Nwokeoma of PUNCH and Sulaimon Olanrewaju also of the  Nigerian Tribune. Investigative Reporting went to Fisayo Soyonbo of The Cable while The Nation’s Taiwo Alimi emerged winner in Sport Reporting. In the Agriculture Reporting, The Nation’s Chikodi Okereocha edged out Dauda Oluwakemi of The Nation and Isioma Madike of The New Telegraph, who were runners-up. READ ALSO: Whatever happened to Nigeria’s ‘Vision 20:2020’? Child Friendly Medium was won by Daily Trust which beat Vanguard and ThisDay to runners-up  position. There was no winner in Radio Reporting but Television Documentary category was won by African Independent Television journalist, Nkoli Omhoudu. DAME’s Life Time Award was presented to The Nigerian Tribune. In his opening remark, the Supervising Trustee of DAME, Mr Lanre Idowu, said the best were shortlisted for the awards. Idowu described the entries as “credibility enhancers” and urged the media not to lose sight on ethics. He said, “The media is an important institution in nation-building. DAME awards honour journalists who have distinguished themselves in different areas of the career to represent the best interest of the country.” Also, The PUNCH won the Best Designed Newspaper of the Year Award ahead of ThisDay and Vanguard newspapers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com