In this interview with FEYISAYO POPOOLA, the Chief Executive Officer, CRC Credit Bureau, Mr Tunde Popoola, says Nigerians in Diaspora can now access loans immediately they arrive in foreign countries What are the bottlenecks you have experienced over the past decade you have been in operation? The major bottleneck we have experienced is the limited means of identification. Nigeria needs a unique identifier; every Nigerian needs to have a number by which we can identify the person. You will agree with me that the future is about data, and with data, there is a lot that can be done to change the fortunes of the people from poverty to prosperity. But as it is, we are not able to take maximum advantage of data unless we have a unique identifier for every Nigerian. A unique identifier is not about holding an identity card, rather it is to have a unique number so that once you mention that number, we can go to the data base and get information about you such as where you live and what you do. If we have that, this economy can move faster and the issue around financial inclusion and poverty can be completely eradicated. I can tell you also that this particular project is what has changed the fortunes of India and China to where they are today. In 1980, China’s poverty rate was 75 per cent and India was 65 per cent. At that time, Nigeria’s poverty rate was only 28 per cent. Today, the reverse is the case. In China and India, they have less than two per cent of their population now in poverty and each of those two countries have over a billion people. Now, Nigeria has moved from 28 per cent to about 55 per cent to 60 per cent as more and more people are entering into poverty because we are unable to provide the basic needs of life for them. So, the issue of identification is what most countries have used to put assets at the disposal of their people and unless we have it, it is going to be very difficult for us to move forward. Banks, retailers, and credit providers will not give credit to unknown people, which is why you have to know people. In those days, before the advent of credit bureaux, you have to know somebody who is introduced by your in-law or by your church or by your mum before they can give you loans. But now we are getting there. However, I think that we can move faster if we have a unique means of identification. That is one thing I think we have to work on, which is the major thing we are urging the government to work on. Are companies mandated by law to submit data to credit bureaux or is it optional? There are two categories of companies; the first category includes commercial institutions and all those institutions that are licensed or supervised by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Those ones are mandated to use the credit bureaux. So, be it commercial banks, merchant banks, finance houses, microfinance banks or mortgage banks, they are compelled to use the services of the credit bureaux. But there are quite a number of other institutions who see value and want to expand. Then they come to the credit bureaux. Some of them include telecommunication companies, electricity distribution companies, retailers, multi-national companies, travel agency businesses who sell on credit, the pharmaceutical companies who sell on credit, the corporative societies who grant loans to their members and financial technology companies that offer quick loans. These institutions are not compelled by law to submit data or to use the bureaux, but they see value in it. That is why we said the day has just broken because where we are aiming for is when someone can walk into a mall and buy something on credit. One should be able to walk into a hotel and use one’s credit card or walk into a mortgage institution and get a mortgage. Nigeria has a shortage of about 17 million houses and if you want to build today, you have to use your own savings. Nobody does that in any part of the world, they rely on mortgage financing. So, those are the focus areas for us in the future. That is why we said that we can really use the bureaux to transform or bring prosperity to the people. But that will happen only when people have unique identification number. The government attempted to adopt the unique identifier system using the National Identity Management Commission but they have had a lot of challenges, especially with card production. What can be done to improve the system? I think the government needs to declare a state of emergency to make sure that everybody is empowered with the identification. They need to put the infrastructure in place to make sure that as soon as possible, everybody has that unique identifier. Now, they have only 1,000 registration centres in Nigeria for 200 million people in a country that is this big. We want government to improve upon that and accelerate the access to where people can register because we have started that journey already and we need to think about how to move faster. How have credit bureaux been able to track defaulters in the banking sectors to recover loans? In recent time, when you look at it, you will discover that the only bank that is crying of default now is the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, and those are the historical loans that have been there for a while. They tell you that once they identify 20 people, then they know who owes them. So, the incidence of non-performing loans has really reduced substantially. This system is not just about profiling customers or making the institution to see the credit history and know the credit of the individuals. It is a social institution that changes the way people react, because you know as an individual or as company that once you have a bad loan, that is the last one you will have. You will not be able to obtain another loan until you go and settle the last one because everybody will know. So, we see ourselves not just as an economic agent, but also as a social institution that changes the behaviour of people to honour agreement and to honour obligations. That is why you have seen that clearly, there has been some level of reduction, and CBN also keeps telling you that non-performing loans are reducing. Did the CRC play any role in facilitating online application of loans? Yes, we did. We introduced something called a credit score. Before now, banks used to lend using haphazard selection, which is selection based on emotions, not on any profile. So, they made wrong judgements; granting loans when they should have declined and declining when they should have granted. There were also incidents of serial defaulters; someone taking a loan from bank A and going to bank B to take another loan and use that one to pay bank A. All of that is not possible anymore because there is this infrastructure where you can see everything that is happening, not just on the banking side, but even on non-banking transaction like telephone, electricity, buying ticket on credit and like what people do in co-operative societies. So, it is a total life changing thing, and that is how we have affected what is happening now. We play a major role in all the new products in all the new models of granting credit that you are seeing now that makes it very fast for people to get credit. Are you satisfied with the level of consumer lending we have now and what can be done to further deepen it? No, I am not satisfied because we are not there yet. You still cannot go to the mall with your unique number and buy something. You still cannot do mortgage loan. If you still have about 10, or 50, or 15 years to spend in service, you should be able to get a loan; we don’t have that yet. We still have not got interest rate down to the lowest level that is affordable for people to comfortably take a loan. So, we are not there yet, we have actually just started because now the infrastructure has been tested, people have seen that it is robust and can be relied upon. The next thing is to think of how to get more people to be able to have access to credit. Does the CRC have any arrangement in place with Exchanges to publish credit worthiness of companies seeking to raise capital? We have an arrangement, especially with the Nigerian Stock Exchange, because more often than not, we conduct background check on institutions that are about to list or are listed and their directors. We check those who are behind the company before they do a lot of things that they do? Sometimes some of the product we do is what we call referencing. They come to us and say tell us about this company, what do you know about them, what do you know about their directors? So, it is a service that we actually also render for now. Has the CRC put any arrangement in place where Nigerians in Diaspora can enjoy credit services? That is what we have done with mobile credit. So, if you are in Diaspora, we have established a relationship with an international credit bureau called Nova credit to make life easy for Nigerians who are migrating especially to the United States and Canada. These are two countries that Nigerians are going to and we want to make them settle as early and as fast as possible. By leveraging on their credit history, they can continue to enjoy seamless uninterrupted access to credit. Before now, Nigerians in Diaspora have had to wait and spend about six months to open and operate an account. That six months or nine months is a long time in the US or Canada, because virtually everything they do there is on credit. But with our new initiative, if you land there today, within one week, you are able to have access to credit and you can then take an apartment, take a credit card and if you are a student you can take a student loan. That makes life easy and that is what we are promoting. Our alliance with mobile credit is looking at how we can do more in other countries where Nigerians go. The major places they go to are US, Canada, UK and Australia. So, we will also continue to monitor the trend and follow Nigerians to where they going. Our job is to ensure that we empower people to live a better life. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com