What inspired you to start your own production outfit? I’ve always been very entrepreneurial. I started my first business at the age of 12, designing jewellery. After obtaining my Master’s degree from the Imperial College London, I moved to Nigeria to launch a women’s wear brand called Goddess Creations. For most of our photo and video shoots, we shot in 4k resolution. After doing the 4K shoots for a few months, I branched out to making short fashion films. From there, I expanded my knowledge of what filmmaking entails. Following this, I formed strategic partnerships and began QRTV. You recently produced a movie on rape. What was the inspiration? Right from when I was young, I’d always been fascinated by the art of storytelling. As I grew older, I became more aware of issues facing my community and society. Prior to the launch of the company, we had already created a few concepts which would be released strategically from 2020. We chose to officially launch our company with a short movie titled, Don’t Beg Now, because the issue of sexual assault and rape in our society is being taken more seriously; more laws and bills are being put in place to curb this menace. With the movie, we wanted to pass across a serious message that would keep people entertained and also make them question a lot of previous beliefs they may have had about rape; all while creating an artistic and cinematic experience for the viewer. What drives you? For me, there is no other option than success– knowing this is what drives me. I’ve always been very competitive in sports, academics and every facet of life. This has instilled a very strong drive in me to excel in everything I do. I’m also blessed to have a strong support system around me. They continually push me and encourage me to succeed. How challenging is the movie industry for young people? Nollywood, in the last five years, has experienced the biggest growth it has ever had. For example, the revenues from cinemas rose by 36 per cent between 2017 and 2018, from $17.3m to $23.6m. As a result of this, more people are trying to break into the industry. This means that the competitive pool is increasing rapidly. On the upside, being younger could mean one would have a different perspective and a different way of dealing with business. This could mean one is more innovative and open to change and in this ever-changing world, being innovative drastically increases one’s chances of success. As a young person coming into the industry with a brand new perspective, I would say getting one’s foot in the door is the most challenging factor. However, with the right structure and team, this challenge can also be overcome. What are the challenges you faced while producing your movie? Don’t Beg Now was shot entirely in 4K resolution. Although it is available to watch in 1080p, 2K and other resolutions on Vimeo, it was originally shot in 4K. Editing a movie shot in 4K poses challenges on its own. To render a 4K video, a special type of computer is needed. For the post-production, we had to invest in a new super computer that enabled us render the movie effectively. Do you look forward to collaboration with big actors? Yes, absolutely. What does success mean to you? To me, success is having a vision. And putting in all the right components to position my vision to have the highest chances of fulfillment and seeing the vision eventually come to reality. Who are your role models? I study a lot of successful people within the media industry and I try to learn something from each of them. I don’t have any role models per se but I’m open to seeking knowledge from accomplished individuals in the industry. What do you hope to achieve with the movie? We hope that this movie shines a light on the gravity of what rape really is. We hope that after watching this movie, people would think twice before blaming and shaming victims. We hope that this movie can put an end to, or at least reduce the stigma that is placed on victims after rape. For Don’t Beg Now, we used a lot of camera angles and shots that have not been perfected in Nollywood. Our art of storytelling from the editing and highly curated sound design to the colour grading show that we are bringing a fresh new perspective to Nollywood. We hope we can introduce the Nigerian audience to a different but breath-taking cinematic experience, while also provoking our viewers to think and perhaps, change some of the misinformed beliefs about rape and sexual assault. How do you plan on rising to the top of your career? We aim to position ourselves as a top player in the industry by constantly incorporating new and fresh methods of filmmaking into Nollywood. We aim to introduce a certain type of filmmaking that the Nigerian audience has not got from Nollywood. As a company that’s keen on innovation, we believe that by being innovative and keeping up with the ever-changing consumer demands, we would become key players in the industry. How do you plan to stay relevant in the industry? By being consistent and releasing quality content back-to-back. What is your advice to unemployed youths? Simple– find your passion! Do you think rape victims usually get justice? No, and that is why we made a movie. What is your educational qualification? I studied Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine at the University of Nottingham, United Kingdom. I also have a Master’s Degree in Business Management from Imperial College, London. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    