Tyopuusu Justin, Jalingo Gunmen in the early hours of Thursday killed two and injured six people in Gonori village in the Gassol Local Government Area of Taraba State. A resident of the village, Mr Gabriel Tyokaa, told our correspondent that the gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen and numbering about 20 invaded a Tiv village about  1am and started shooting. “We were deep asleep when suddenly we started hearing gunshots and at dawn, we discovered that two people were killed and six injured in the attack. “We strongly suspect the Fulani herders in our area. Just a few days ago, the Gbokoji Fulani herdsmen led their cattle to eat up the farms of some people and they were compelled to pay compensation, but they vowed to revenge. “It’s unfortunate that a civil matter could lead to this kind of attack. “We want to call on the council chairman and the traditional rulers here to caution the Gbokoji Fulani  to order,” he said. Confirming the attack, the newly appointed Caretaker Chairman of the Gassol Local Government Area, Tanko Maikarfi, regretted the incident, saying he would not tolerate such attacks in the area. Maikarfi said the injured victims had been rushed to the First Referral Hospital, Mutum-biyu, for treatment. “I got the information this morning that gunmen had attacked and killed two Tiv people and injured six at Gonori village. “This is unfortunate and condemnable. I am in touch with the Civil Defence officer in charge of the council and we are mapping out strategies to ensure that the situation does not escalate. “Very soon, I will convene a security meeting to address the security situation in the council,” he said. Meanwhile, the Police in Kebbi State on Thursday stated that two people were killed when cattle rustlers from Zamfara State invaded some villages in the Danko Wasagu Local Government Area of the state. The Public Relations Officer of the command, DSP Nafiu Abubakar, confirmed the development to newsmen in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. According to him, some bandits believed to be cattle rustlers, invaded Shagel and Yar-Kuka villages in the Danko Wasagu LGA shooting sporadically and carted away scores of livestock belonging to farmers in the area. He explained that during the attack, two locals were killed by the bandits while their animals were stolen. “As you know, Danko Wasagu is a local government area in Kebbi that is a neighbouring to Zamfara. “So, they easily find their way into Kebbi, launch attack and run away with animals. “On that fateful day, as usual, they launched attack on the village leaving two people dead,” he said. Abubakar added that the police had since deployed their men to the area and effort was ongoing to trace and arrest the criminals. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    