Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The management of the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex, Ile-Ife, has renamed the Paediatric Ward 11 as Prof. Jerome Elusiyan Ward to immortalise the late chairman of the institution’s Medical Advisory Committee. The renaming of the ward was announced at a commendation service held for the late Elusiyan at the institution’s Chapel of Grace on Thursday. The Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Prof. Victor Adetiloye, in his tribute, said the deceased lived a fulfilled and impactful  life and deputised for him from April 2018 till his death. Adetiloye said Elusiyan was loyal, devoted, honest, diligent and an exemplary leader whose death was a great loss. A member of the Ife Community Landlords’ Association,  Mr Olaniyi Ogunleye,  testified that Elusiyan was kind,  generous and participated actively and financially in the affairs of the association. Ogunleye said the deceased was humble and in spite of his often busy schedule, attended their meetings regularly,  saying he would be  greatly missed. In his sermon, Pastor M. A. Oyelami of the Chapel of Grace urged all Christians to prepare to meet the Lord. He added that the deceased’s death was a colossal loss to his family, OAUTHC,  NMA,  paediatrics association,  Okegbo community and Nigeria at large. The cleric stated further that the country had lost a rare gem, adding that the deceased spent his life to serve God and humanity. “One day would be one day when it will be your turn,  minimise gathering worldly materials,  but have your treasures in heaven where moth would not devour it,” he said. Oyelami decried the level of insecurity in the country and appealed to the present regime to find solution to all the challenges facing the nation. Elusiyan  until his demise was a consultant paediatric Endicrinologist and CMAC  of the teaching hospital. He would be buried in his hometown,  Oke-Igbo,  Ondo State, on Friday (today). The deceased was murdered while  returning to Ife from the Ambrose Ali University on December 13. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth Medical Association on Thursday called on the Federal Government to improve security to prevent killings and kidnappings of medical doctors and other health professionals in the country. President of CMA, Dr Osahon Enabulele, made the call in a condolence message to the family of the late Prof Elusiyan. “CMA remains deeply saddened over the gruesome murder by gunmen of one of our own; an erudite scholar, a patriotic Nigerian, a reputable professor of paediatrics and the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital. “Late Elusiyan was killed in the line of duty while returning from a clinical examination of the undergraduate medical students of the Ambrose Ali University in Edo State of Nigeria. “This unfortunate death, like many others that had taken place before now, is one too many for Nigeria and her health community,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    