Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The National Youth Service Corps has said it would release a movie to educate Nigerians on the consequences of evasion of national service, as well as the importance of the NYSC Act and Bye-law. The NYSC Director-General, Brig-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, said this on Wednesday, adding that the scheme was unrelenting in its resolve to “prosecute any fake corps member that is caught during registration in any of our orientation camps.” The DG added that the NYSC would not relent in its efforts towards sanitising the mobilisation process, saying the influx of unqualified graduates from some West African universities must be tackled. Ibrahim said this while addressing Commanding Officers at the 3 Division Headquarters, Nigerian Army in Jos, Plateau State. He said, “The scheme will soon release a movie which will be used as a tool of educating the public on the importance of the NYSC Act and Bye-law, including the consequences of service evasion. “Under my leadership, the scheme will not mobilise any fake graduate. The NYSC will team up with the National Universities Commission, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, the Federal Ministry of Education, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other relevant agencies in the country to fight the battle. “We will continue to prosecute any fake corps member that is caught during registration in any of our orientation camps. The scheme is also thinking outside the box to generate income through the deployment of its Information and Communications Technology solutions. [READ ALSO] Alleged fraud: US seizes jet belonging to Nigerian “We will soon release a movie which will be used as a tool of educating the public on the importance of the NYSC Act and Bye-law including the consequences of service evasion. “We reiterate the zero tolerance of the scheme for mobilising unqualified graduates for national service. The NYSC will not relent in its efforts towards sanitising the mobilisation process as the NYSC Act does not allow us to mobilise unqualified graduates to participate in the service corps.”