A Kenyan model and reigning Miss Kenya, Irene Ng’endo Mukii, has been crowned the most beautiful girl in Africa 2019. Mukii beat 22 other contestants, among who were Nigeria’s Martha Ogar, to emerge the winner of the 2019 edition of the Miss Africa beauty pageant. The winner of the event, which ended in the early hours of Saturday, took home a cash prize of 35, 000 US dollars and an all expenses paid trip to Malaysia. The beauty pageant is part of activities to mark the Carnival Calabar festivities with the theme ‘Humanity’. In his keynote address during the pageant which is in its fourth edition, the Governor of Cross River State, Professor Ben Ayade said humanity is the only religion the world needs to embrace and the society should pull down all the shackles that engender inhumanity in the society. According to him, God created man to add value to the society and it is wrong for humans to fashion out a way for free movement of goods and simultaneously restrict the free movement of people. “None of us  has the luxury of knowing where he was before he was born or where he is going after death, all we know is that we live, and for today that we live, let us live for humanity. “Let us put an end to the restriction of human movement and then allow the free movement of goods. I plead with the world that we should put an end to the control of human movement. “Why should the man who produces cocoa in Ikom in Cross River State not be free to go to Switzerland for instance whereas the cocoa he produces gets down there. “God created for a purpose which is to bring value to the society as well as humanity. Humanity is the only religion that the world should embrace and once humanity becomes a religion we will as a people collectively rise above life’s vicissitudes. Humanity is insensitive to religion because with humanity we can always provide a shoulder for one another to lean on,” he said. Senator Florence Ita Giwa who also spoke at the event said she was proud of the models because they all have what it takes to change the narrative about Africa. She also called for humane coexistence among peoples across the world so as to make the society a better place. 