Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The organised labour in Ogun State has threatened to begin strike any moment from Friday  (today) over the national minimum wage. The organised labour comprises  Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress lamented that their series of requests to meet Governor Dapo Abiodun over the issue were ignored. They therefore submitted that due to the alleged delay by the government in the negotiation on the new national minimum wage, they could no longer guarantee industrial harmony in the state. The declaration was contained in a letter dated November 22, 2019 addressed to the governor through the Head of Service, Lanre Bisiriyu. The letter was titled “Concern Over The Delay In The Negotiation on the New National Minimum Wage And Other Sundry Issues.” The letter was jointly signed by the Chairman of the NLC , Emmanuel Bankole and his counterpart in the TUC, Olubunmi Fajobi; the Chairman, Joint Negotiating Council, Folorunso Bankole and the Secretary, Adebiyi Olusegun. According to the union,  the government’s failure to hold a formal meeting with the labour portends that the latter (labour) is seen as inconsequential in the algorithms of advancing the cause of our dear state but as well has been positioned on master-servant scale of industrial relationship.” The body, however, asked Abiodun to set up negotiating committee on the minimum wage on or before  Friday  (today) or risk industrial disharmony. The labour unions argued that the “industrial peace currently being experienced in the state may  not be assured any further in the event that our call received no further action not later than Friday, 6th December, 2019.” READ ALSO: Zamfara emirs oppose transfer of police commissioner When contacted, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said there was no cause for alarm. Somorin explained that the governor had reassured the organised labour of his commitment to enter into negotiation with the workers on the minimum wage. He said the issues had been taken care of in the proposed 2020 budget. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 