Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Leaked documents have shown how the immediate past Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Babatunde Fowler, begged President Muhammadu Buhari to renew his tenure which expired on Monday. In the letter dated December 9, 2019, Fowler, who wrote a letter to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, reminded the President that his tenure had elapsed. In the letter with reference number FIRS/EC/CWOSGF/0476/19/006, titled, ‘Re: Notification of Expiration of Tenure as Executive Chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service, Fowler also attached a second document detailing his achievements in office. The letter read in part, “I write to notify the Secretary to the Government of the Federation that my first tenure as the Executive Chairman of the FIRS ends today, December 9, 2019. “In view of the above, I wish to present myself for re-appointment for a second term. This is consistent with provisions of the FIRS Establishment Act 2007 and would grant me the opportunity to consolidate and build on the achievements we have recorded in the past four years. “Please find attached the highlight of my achievements during my first tenure in office. I would like to put on record my gratitude to Mr. President for the opportunity to serve the nation. I am also thankful for your support in the course of the discharge of my duties.” See letter:  Fowler, who is a childhood friend and former classmate of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, is believed to have been lobbying several top politicians to prevail on the President to re-appoint him. Fowler, who is a former Chairman of the Lagos Inland Revenue Service, disclosed in January that the FIRS under his leadership generated its highest revenue ever in 2018 with a total sum of N5.3tn. He said the target for the year 2019 was N9tn. However, the FIRS chairman’s claims became a subject of debate in August when in a leaked memo emanating from the Office of President Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, the FIRS boss was asked to explain a shortfall in revenue. In his response, Fowler blamed the drop in the price of crude oil and recession for the shortfall recorded in actual tax collections from 2015 to 2018. Kyari’s query, which was leaked, was the first sign that he was not favoured for a second term.