Gibson Achonu,  Owerri Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has cautioned principals of public secondary schools in the state against extortion and collection of illegal levies. He also advised them to shun corruption to rebuild the badly battered education sector in the state. Ihedioha gave this caution on Thursday, at the Nigeria Union of Teachers’  House, Port Harcourt Road, Owerri, through the state Commissioner for Education, Prof Viola Onwuliri,  during  a crucial meeting  he had with the principals. He urged them to stop tarnishing the image of the state government which, he said, had done a lot for teachers in the areas of the payment of full salaries, provision of instructional materials and payment of pensions to retired teachers. He said, “The imposition of such levies and fees places additional burden on parents, who are already overburdened with the harsh economic situation of the country.” Ihedioha, however, reiterated that teaching was a noble profession and that teachers as role models  should guard against  anything that  would  erode  their credibility, respect  and dignity. He added that they should be humble and take their job seriously. He recalled that the two erring principals earlier suspended had been reinstated after  refunding  the money they illegal collected, from pupils. The governor, however, said future culprits would be demoted and posted to the school in their village. He observed that some principals only come to school when there was money to collect, adding that no principal had been authorized to collect Parent – Teacher Association levies. “I therefore wish to bring to your notice that there will be a massive redeployment of principals in the state. I also advise  school principals to be more concerned with increasing the number of students  enrolment  as government will not spare anybody posing as an obstacle to sanitizing and cleaning the education system in the state,” Ihedioha added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 