Adelani Adepegba and Ted Odogwu The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, on Wednesday, in Kano dismissed as false, insinuations by the United States that Christians were being persecuted in Nigeria. The NSCIA also denied claims that there was violation of religious freedom and intolerance in the country. The Chairman of the council and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, III, made the position of the body known while reacting to the claim by the Christians Association. The monarch spoke at Bayero University, Kano at the opening ceremony of the 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course, organised by Zone A of the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria. The royal father argued that, if the alleged persecution existed, it was unethical for it to be tabled at an interfaith forum, where both Christian and Muslim leaders met periodically to brainstorm on harmonious co-existence between the two dominant religions. The Sultan noted that the numerous atrocities allegedly committed by Fulani herdsmen were by no means ignited by religion, pointing out that not all Fulani were Muslims. The monarch added that many Fulani were atheists, whose main interest was to protect their cattle He said he had already appealed to the Muslim faithful not to be provoked by the statement, describing it as false and partial. While describing the statement, credited to the US, as unfortunate, the Sultan charged the Federal Government to debunk the impression about Nigeria. Also, the Sultan disclosed that the council was working tirelessly to change the narrative. In his address, the Emir of Kano, Mallam Muhammad Sanusi ll, cautioned Muslims against growing their needs beyond their resources. He attributed the increasing rate of out-of-school children in the Muslim North to uncontrolled polygamy and the rising rate of divorce. In his remarks, the Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, who was represented by the Commander General of Hisbah Board, Harun Ibn-Sina, said the state government was committed to upholding Islamic values. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Christian Graduate Fellowship on Friday said the Sultan was being economical with the truth, noting that he had always been mute on the decimation of Christian communities in the North by Islamic fundamentalists. The NCGF, in a statement on Friday, said the Muslim leader could not fault the research by CAN and its allies on Islamic fundamentalism in Nigeria, noting that “there exists quantum documentary evidence of the murderous acts of Muslims against Nigerian Christians.” The fellowship in the statement signed by its National President, Prof Charles Adisa, and General Secretary, Mr Onyenachi Nwaegeruo, said it expected the Sultan to address the persecution of Christians instead of flaying CAN. It said, “We thought the Sultan should address the subject matter of the international opprobrium which Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen have brought to the nation rather than make a scapegoat of the Christian Association of Nigeria.” The NCGF said it had documented records of  attacks on Christians, noting that Abubakar had never condemned the attacks, adding  that several thousands of people had been killed in Southern Kaduna, Benue, Plateau, Taraba, and Adamawa states without a single culprit in custody. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com