Tony Okafor, Awka A governorship aspirant in Anambra State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr Obiora Okonkwo, has said the trouble with Igbo is love for pecuniary gains. He said the problem of Igbo in Nigeria was self-afflicted. He said the Igbo had abandoned their traditional “consensus meritorious” method of selecting leaders for material and pecuniary consideration. Okonkwo stated this while delivering a lecture at the 5th annual Umunri Colloquium at Enugwu Ukwu, Anambra State,  themed, “Ndigbo in contemporary Nigeria: A social, cultural, political and economic reflection.” He decried the development in Igbo where materialism was placed above meritocracy in selection of leaders. He recalled that in the traditional Igbo society, people would sit and discuss the pedigree of any person who would lead them before selecting such people, adding that often, such leaders were wooed by the people because of their manifest good character and capacity. Okonkwo said, “That is selection before election. That was how people like the late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe emerged as leaders. These days, many Igbo have seen leadership as a means to attain wealth and not service to the people. “Today, what is the qualification for leadership? Tell me if you know? Leadership has no qualification now. “It is for this reason that people who have retired from their business, who are no longer strong to render quality leadership, join politics and contest elections. Others simply buy the position because they have wealth. “If we must get back on track in this country, Igbo must learn to send their first eleven for leadership. We know ourselves, we can sit and select those we will send to leadership positions, even before the election, and that was what our people did in the past,” Okonkwo said. He urged the people of the state to elect only those they knew their track records. “We all know ourselves. We know our capabilities. And if we are sincere with ourselves, even in the coming Anambra election, we can select our governor before the election. “So, I am advocating that we go back to our old style of leadership selection process. That is what made us who we are. This system of all-comers affair is not working and will continue to throw up bad leaders.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com