Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The General Manager, Ogun State Television, Festus Kehinde, has warned against abuse of community media in the country. Kehinde described community media as an avenue to enlighten the people in  various communities across the country. Kehinde, who spoke on the role of community media, stated this  during the  28th Anniversary of Prestige Newspaper,  a community newspaper in Ogun State and celebration of icons, held on Sunday, at the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Oke-Ilewo, Abeokuta. Kehinde described Community Media as  a powerful agent of social change used to mobilise the populace in supporting government and commercial development projects. He said, “The role of the community media in Rwanda was identified as the major catalyst for the ethnic cleansing and genocide that threatened the very existence of that nation in 1994. “No wonder there was a major outcry in Nigeria when it was proposed that a community radio be established to control the activities of nomadic herdsmen who frequently clashed with farmers in their quest to feed their cattle. Herein lies the dangerous roles of community media when not properly controlled. “In contemporary world, such element of the power of the media has become more entrenched in the minds of people and has also advanced in terms of practice and in the various options available for people’s consumption. “We have identified that community media play alternative, oppositional, participatory and collaborative roles in our national development .” Also speaking at the event, the Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, highlighted some security tips, advising the people  not to  be careless about security issue in their  communities. He said “If in the night, your generator suddenly went off, do not go out to check it, especially if you just serviced it. This is one of the new ways, kidnappers used to attack people. “If also you hear tap running in the night in your compound, don’t go out to check it with the attempt to lock it, leave it until the following day, and you will pump another one. This is a plot being used  to kidnap people by kidnappers.” Earlier, the  Publisher, Prestige Newspapers, Dada Olanipekun, in his  remarks,  urged the Department of State Services  to obey  the court order and  release the convener of #RevolutionNow#, Omoyele Sowore. While speaking on Ogun politics, Olanipekun described the pace at which  Governor Dapo Abiodun was running his administration as too slow. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  