John Ameh, Abuja State governors have yet to start full investigation into the ownership structure of power distribution companies in the country, nearly two weeks after they undertook to take up the assignment. The National Economic Council at its last meeting held on November 21 raised a committee to carry out the assignment. The committee, which is chaired by Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, has all the governors representing the six geo-political zones on the Board of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company as members. The investigation ordered by NEC is to ascertain the stakes of the various state governments “if any”, in the 40 per cent shares retained by the Federal Government in the DisCos as of the time of privatisation in 2013. The PUNCH learnt on Thursday that the committee was expected to report the progress to  NEC at its next meeting in the third week of December. However, findings indicated that other commitments by the governors both in their states and in Abuja had reportedly not allowed a full commencement of the investigation. It was learnt that NEC chaired by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo raised the committee following complaints by many states that they expected to have returns from the investment of the 40 per cent in the DisCos. One official in one of the states informed The PUNCH that the governors had yet to go into the matter fully. “I am not aware that the governors have started looking into the issue. There have been a series of meetings, but I am not aware that my governor attended any meeting on the Discos yet,” the official from one of the northern states told The PUNCH on Thursday. Enquiries The PUNCH made at the s ecretariat of the Nigeria Governors Forum did not return any responses. As of the time of filing this report, the NGF’s Head of Media and Public Affairs, Mr Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, had yet to respond to enquiries by The PUNCH. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo’s office had on November 22 clarified the decision taken at the November NEC meeting. The media aide to the VP, Mr Laolu Akande, had said in a statement, “For the purposes of clarity and accurate records, the only issue which came up for discussions at NEC yesterday (Thursday, November 21) was about the quantum of state governments’ interests, if any, in the 40 per cent shares retained by the Nigerian government in each of the DisCos at the point of privatisation. “A committee was then constituted to review historical records and advise the Council accordingly.” When contacted for comments on whether the investigation had started, the VP’s office told The PUNCH that the governors on the committee would know. It also said that in the alternative, updated information could be obtained at the next NEC meeting. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    