The European Union and United Nations Children’s Fund have treated 12,259 pregnant women and children below five years of age in the Katagum Local Government Area of Bauchi State in 15 months. EU/UNICEF Team Leader on “Hard To Reach(HTR) areas in the council, Mrs Adebisi Ibinola, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria on Thursday at Jabbal settlements in Bidir ward of the area. Ibinola, who is a retired nurse and midwife, said the clients were treated in 16 settlements all in the hinterland between October 2018 and December 2019. She said the clients were treated of cases of malaria, pneumonia, diarrhoea and pregnancy-related problems, while clients with serious problems were referred to Kuskuri health facility and the Federal Medical Centre, Azare. Ibinola listed Bidir, Madara and Magunshi wards as areas covered by the team within the period under review. She said the programme had impacted positively on the health status of pregnant women and children during the period. The team leader, however, appealed to the state government to assist the team with motorcycles or four-wheeled driven vehicles to enable them to perform better. One of the volunteers, Mallam Adamu Umar, who led NAN correspondent to the affected areas, said that at the beginning, the communities were so sceptical and unwilling to accept the programme. Umar said the communities made a u-turn when they discovered that the few ones that had earlier accepted the services were living better than those who refused to accept it. He identified lack of transportation to access the settlements as challenge and called on the government and philathrophists to assist the team with motorcycles to enable the team to excel in its work. The community heads of Jabbal and Garin Malam Barka, Messrs Suleiman Hassan and Ibrahim Musa, commended EU and UNICEF for the gesture, which according to them, had improved the health status of their women and children. “Before the coming of EU/UNICEF, we conveyed our sick ones on motorcycles to nearby health facilities which is about 10km or more,” said Hassan. Musa also said, “Our pregnant women who have hitherto had no knowledge of antenatal, post- natal care and children diseases were being taken care of by the team. “Though the team visits us once in a month, the services rendered to this group are tremendous and wonderful.” Some of the beneficiaries who spoke to NAN in separate interviews also commended EU/UNICEF for the gesture.