Matthew Ochei, Asaba A teenager, identified simply as Williams, has been arrested for stealing tubers of yam from a farm in Issele-Uku in the Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State. Southern City News gathered that the 17-year-old boy dug up almost the entire tubers in the farm overnight, leaving the owner, Mr Chiedu Mordi, with nothing. The suspect was said to have been caught on Saturday by the vigilante group, which had been patrolling the area to ensure security. The vigilante group was said to have trailed the suspect to where he hid the yams in the bush, while making arrangement with a vehicle to evacuate them. An Issele-Uku palace source told our correspondent that the suspect, who was later identified as Williams, was brought to the palace after he was apprehended by the vigilantes. The source explained that the suspect had been in the habit of stealing tubers of yam in people’s farms until he was caught. The source said, “His name is Williams from Plateau State. He stole from Chinedu’s farm and the vigilante caught him where he hid the yams, while making plans to evacuate them. “They brought him to palace after which he will be handed over to the police to face the law, because if they leave him, he will continue to steal. “He has been doing it; it surprises me that one will wake up in the morning, go to his or her farm and notice that some part of the farm has been dug by an unknown person and his crop stolen. “The same thing happened to other farm produce and the person who suffered to cultivate it will go hungry or he commits suicide if he can’t bear it. “We suffering from herdsmen; the little one we manage to get, some hoodlums will invade our farms in the night and steal them.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said she was at a function and had not been briefed on the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  