ADELANI ADEPEGBA The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission is set to prosecute the directors of Hedge Fund Securities allegedly used by the Delta State Government to siphon billions of naira from the Paris Club refund. Sources in the anti-graft commission informed our correspondent on Saturday that investigations had been completed, noting that the directors might be arraigned  soon. Over N98bn had been paid to Delta  by the Federal Government out of which billions of naira was reportedly remitted to Hedge Securities. Hedge Fund Securities was said to have been engaged after a financial consultancy firm, Mauritz Walton Ltd, had successfully reconciled Delta’s  debt profile with the Ministry of Finance and Debt Management Office on the Paris Club refund. Instead of paying the agreed commission to Mauritz Walton Ltd, Delta State Government reportedly engaged and paid Hedge Funds the commission, after the job had been reportedly completed by MWL. The company  petitioned the EFCC last year over the development, asking  them  to probe HFS and individuals named in the petition. Titled, ‘Petition for the recovery of our consultancy fees fraudulently paid to Hedge Fund Securities and others on the reconciliation and recovery of over-deduction of foreign loans (1995 – 2006) Paris Club refund on the Account of Delta State Government,’ the petition tasked the anti-graft agency to assist in recovering “our full consultancy fees which has been paid to Hedge Securities, and other persons as consultants.” The petitioner explained that it was engaged by the Delta State Government in November 2014 to reconcile and recover the state’s over-deductions on foreign loans by the FG. “We immediately commenced work on the project and by December 8, 2014, we had fully reconciled the debt profile of Delta State and filed a demand with the Federal Government seeking a refund of $365.6m,” the firm  said. However, spokesman for the EFCC Wilson Uwujaren said he was not aware of the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    