OKECHUKWU NNODIM and OLAIDE OYELUDE Katsina State Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba, has relocated to Daura where he is leading a police team providing security for the town and its environs during President Muhammadu Buhari’s ongoing visit. The President arrived in Daura on Friday evening and sources said he might be there till Wednesday. The President, will during the visit, engage in some official assignments among which is the commissioning of the new Federal University of Transportation, Daura on Monday. The spokesman for the Katsina Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the relocation of the CP to Daura. He said, “The CP has relocated to Daura since yesterday (Friday) to ensure a hitch-free security during the President’s visit and during the official ‘foundation laying’ ceremony for the Federal University of Transportation. “I cannot disclose the number of our officers and men who are on the ground for the exercise to you for security reason. But all arms of security including our sister agencies are involved. Katsina is generally peaceful now but we are not taking chances.” Security in and around Daura town has been beefed up with armed policemen strategically positioned in some of the towns located between Katsina and Daura including Mashi, Dutsi junction and Tsargalle. There is no visible presence of police in Katsina town aside from the security personnel stationed at the Umaru Musa Yaardua International airport area. The town is generally peaceful. Meanwhile, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria on Saturday confirmed the deployment of security personnel to Katsina airport and other airports across the country. Although it was silent on the number of personnel deployed in the Katsina airport, it said the total number of FAAN aviation security officers deployed in Nigeria’s 22 airports under the authority’s management were over 700. An online media outlet, Sahara Reporter, reported on Saturday that 120 personnel were deployed in the Katsina airport alone. But the spokesperson for FAAN, Henriatta Yakubu, said the authority deployed personnel based on the needs of each airport. “The deployment was based on the need of each particular airport and I can’t give or confirm the numbers deployed in each airport right now,” she told our one of our correspondents. In September, The PUNCH reported that to boost security at Nigerian airports, the Federal Government through FAAN, graduated and deployed 727 Aviation Security and firefighters to airports Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 