Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 23-year old man, Adeeko Owolabi, reportedly connived with a 42-year-old self-acclaimed pastor of a white garment church, Segun Philip, to murder his girlfriend, Favour Daley-Oladele. The Ogun State Police Command on Sunday said it had arrested Philip, alongside Owolabi, over the killing of Daley-Oladele, a final year Sociology student at the Lagos State University. Owolabi, after his arrest, narrated how he used his girlfriend to prepare ritual meal for himself and his own mother who he claimed had been broke. Owolabi, who was arrested by men of the state Police Command at Ikoyi-Ile area of Osun State, confessed to having connived with Philip to kill his girlfriend for ritual. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abeokuta. Oyeyemi explained that the two suspects were arrested by the Police attached to Mowe Division at Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State. The statement reads in part, “The deceased was reported to have left home to an unknown destination since the 8th of December, 2019 and has not been seen since then; hence, she was reported missing by her parents at Mowe Police Station. “Upon the report, the DPO Mowe Division, SP Marvis Jayeola, detailed his crack detectives to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disappearance of the 22-year-old woman. “The detectives went into full-scale technical and forensic investigation of the case and their efforts paid off when the movement of the deceased was traced to a white garment church in far away Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State being pastored by one Segun Philip. “On getting to the church, the self-acclaimed pastor was promptly arrested, but he was quick to inform the detectives that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, who was still within the vicinity of the church. “The said boyfriend was traced and apprehended immediately.” The PPRO added that during the interrogation, Owolabi claimed he lured his girlfriend from Lagos to Osun State. Owolabi also confessed that while he used pestle to smash his girlfriend’s head while she was sleeping, his pastor cut off her neck. He further revealed that the self-acclaimed pastor cut open his girlfriend’s chest, removed her heart and used it to prepare concoction for him. He said the financial situation of his family led him to go to the pastor who asked him to bring a human being for ritual. “On interrogation, Adeeko Owolabi confessed to the Police that the deceased was his girlfriend and that he had lured her to Ikoyi-Ile where he had perfected plans with the so-called pastor Segun Philip to use her for money ritual. “He stated further that while the girl was sleeping, the pastor gave him a pestle, which he used to smash the head of the girl and the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, ripped open her chest and removed her heart, which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat. “When asked what pushed him to such devilish act, Owolabi explained that he decided to go into money ritual because things were not going well with his parents financially, especially his mother who used to be the family breadwinner. “And when he sought assistance from the pastor, he was asked to bring a human being for that purpose and the available person at that time was his girlfriend,” Oyeyemi said. The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for proper investigation. “The CP, who described the gruesome murder of the deceased as ‘superlative degree of wickedness,’ vowed to ensure that all the suspects face the full wrath of the law.”