Nike Popoola The number of motorists with genuine motor insurance covers on Nigerian roads dropped by 1.8 million between February 2016 and September 2019. Figures obtained from the Nigerian Insurers Association on Thursday revealed that about 2.5 million vehicles were registered on the Nigerian Insurance Industry Database. The NIA had in 2016, disclosed that about 4.3 million vehicles had been registered on its NIID. In January 2019, the association revealed that just over three million vehicles were still on its NIID when it introduced its USSD verification code. It, however, expressed concern over the drop in the number of those taking genuine insurance. Operators are worried that many motorists endanger the lives of other road users by driving their vehicles on Nigerian roads without appropriate insurance certificates. Instead of procuring valid certificates that would provide insurance cover and compensation for road users after an accident, a large number of the motorists buy cheap papers from fraudsters in unauthorised areas. The Chairman, NIA, Mr Tope Smart, had said, “The USSD is a Global System for Mobile Communication technology used to send text between a mobile phone and an application programme in the network. It works independent of Internet connectivity.” While explaining further, he said a motorist could send an SMS on any network using the code “*565*11#. He said motorists could verify their motor insurance for a fee of N20 using “*565*11#” to any network without having Internet network on the phone. He recalled that in 2010, the association introduced the NIID to eradicate fake certificates, and it went live in 2011. According to him, the NIID is intended to serve as an authentic database of the Nigerian insurance industry data and to provide qualitative statistics/analysis of the industry data. It is also to serve as a vehicle for easy verification of genuine insurance certificates by all stakeholders; and to reduce incidence of fraudulent insurance transactions especially for motor and marine policies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 