The National Association of Nigerian Students has called for the release of Agba Jalingo from the custody of security operatives. Jalingo, a publisher of CrossRiverWatch, was arrested on August 22, over a report alleging that Gov Ben Ayade of Cross River State diverted N500 million belonging to the state. National Public Relations Officer of the association, Mr Adeyemi Azeez, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Monday. Azeez said that turning deaf ears to the plight of the renowned activist and journalists was uncalled for and therefore urged those involved to do the needful to secure his release. “On Friday, Oct 4, the journalist and rights activist, Agba Jalingo, filed a bail application but was refused by a Federal High Court. “Although the court has autonomous powers on cases before it, this development further increased the widespread rumours that state powers are behind his travail. “In fact, the mode of his arrest was shocking as his wife confirmed that the men who took her husband away from their residence in Lagos were not wearing police uniforms. “Also, they did not show her the warrant of arrest,” he said. READ ALSO: Group gives Ayade 14-day ultimatum to free Agba Jalingo According to him, it was later discovered that the journalist was arrested by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team of the Nigerian Police Force on Aug 22. Azeez said that Jalingo was moved to Calabar and arraigned before a Federal High Court on Sept 25. He said that the journalist was arraigned on four charges bordering on acts of treason, treasonable felony, terrorism and attempt to topple the Cross River State Government. Azeez said that it was inhuman for the activist to be kept in the correctional centre since Sept 25, as the ruling of the court was being awaited. “The activist has been kept in custody for over 119 days even when his case is yet to be ruled upon by a competent court,” he said. The students expressed concern that the continuous detention of the activist was undermining the nation’s hard-earned democracy. (NAN)   