Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt The Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Security Peace and Adversary Committee, also known as OSPAC, has denied involvement in the killing of five persons in the Chokocho community in the Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State. The state police command had stated that security personnel recovered five bodies from the Chokocho Bridge on Sunday, adding that victims fell into the river after being shot. However, some members of the community have accused the vigilante group in ONELGA of being responsible for the killings. Defending his group in a telephone chat with Southern City News, OSPAC Disciplinary Commander, Victor Ohaji, expressed surprise that anybody could accuse the vigilante group falsely, even when it activities did not extend to the Etche LGA. Ohaji explained that based on its mode of operation, no OSPAC official would embark on indiscriminate shooting, except he was after a kidnapper or armed robber, who first fire at him. He said, “OSPAC cannot be shooting people in such a manner. We shoot only when kidnappers and armed robbers fire at us; we are trained and enlightened; so, we cannot shoot indiscriminately. “The vehicle used by the attackers in Sunday’s incident does not have the OSPAC logo. So, I can tell you that the allegation against OSPAC is false.” Ohaji expressed regret that some criminals would resort to impersonating OSPAC, adding that members of the local vigilante group had always worked in collaboration with the police and other security agencies to ensure peace. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, had said on Monday, “Five persons were shot dead in Etche. We have recovered five corpses. “They were killed by yet-to-be identified gunmen. Though people were insinuating that OSPAC members were involved, we should not begin to guess in this type of situation.” Omoni added that the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Mustapha Dandaura, had ordered a thorough investigation of the circumstance that led to the killing of the five persons and the arrest of those behind the dastardly act. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  