According to the annual report of the Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum, the Nigerian investing public lost N11.9bn to the Mavrodi Mundial Moneybox Ponzi scheme. Ponzi scheme is a fraudulent investment operation where the operator, an individual or organisation, pays returns to its investors from new capital paid to the operators by new investors, rather than from profit earned through legitimate sources. Within the last few months these illegal fund managers have adopted various strategies to collect money from would-be investors. Some of them engage in free seminars at their offices for people to learn more about their products and the money making business with an unbeatable compensation plan and huge bonuses. After these seminars, they solicit for funds from unsuspecting members of the public by enticing them with returns of monthly interest on investment of between 25 per cent to 50 per cent, depending on the nature and investment type. They usually indicate a registration period of between one and two weeks and also issue numerous notices directing all prospective customers to make deposits into their bank accounts. Within the last few months, the Securities and Exchange Commission have shut down about five of such fund managers.The commission said it was collaborating with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to check the trend of Ponzi scheme in the country. One of such areas where enforcement has been intensified is Kano State where five out of the six notable companies that engaged in Ponzi scheme had been shut The five companies so far sealed were MGB Global, Bitcoin Company, Money Rite, No Failure Development and X-World. These firms were shut by SEC in collaboration with the EFCC after mounting request by the people to withdraw what was collected from them in the name of investments, to no avail. Some capital market operators attributed investors return to Ponzi schemes patronage to the current economic challenges in the country. They also said  that ignorance, as well as greed to make huge returns, contributed to investors’ patronage of the scheme. The Securities and Exchange Commission had repeatedly warned Nigerians to desist from investing in schemes operated by persons or organisations that were not registered to carry out fund management functions. The Director, Market Development Department SEC, Mr Edward Okolo, said the commission  would continue to  provide investors with better knowledge on how to manage their finances and recognise fraudulent financial schemes. He added that the commission would expose investors to such fraudulent schemes and empower them with some of the required knowledge to identify and reject them whenever they may occur. He added,  “A lot of us sitting in this room today have been cheated out of our hard earned incomes by unscrupulous and illegal fund managers, who promise us returns too sweet to be true. “However, given inherent human nature and the lack of requisite knowledge, we plunge into these schemes believing them to be true, only to realise that we have lost our earnings to faceless companies and individuals.” The acting Director- General of SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, urged investors to be careful of any investment scheme that was proposing a return level that was unreasonably high. Uduk advised would-be investors to always ascertain whether such fund manager and the products being offered were registered with the SEC. She said that the capital market was properly position to provide investment benefits to all Nigerians. According to her, SEC has been doing a lot in terms of investor education to assist people understand issues surrounding the capital market. Uduk added that the commission had undertaken various initiatives to make the capital market more user-friendly so that people can participate in it with greater ease, comfort and convenience. She assured that SEC has put in place adequate mechanisms to protect investors in the capital market. The SEC boss said having seen the negative impact of investing in Ponzi Scheme, the commission under her leadership would continue to caution against investing in fraudulent schemes that appear mouthwatering. “Our goal is to enlighten people about the capital market and the attendant benefits while also cautioning them against investing in fraudulent schemes that appear mouthwatering but are actually not capital market products. “As the saying goes, ‘all that glitters is not gold.’ There is no doubt in my mind that the capital market presents a good platform for addressing many of Nigeria’s economic challenges. “On our part as regulator, we shall continue to introduce new ideas and policies towards developing and regulating capital market that is dynamic, fair, transparent and efficient to contribute to the nation’s economic development, “she added. She also said the commission had established a Complaint Management Framework to address the complaint of capital market investors.Uduk said the initiative would help investors lodge their complaints through the right channel and assist the regulator in addressing the issues. The President, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Mr Boniface Okezie, blamed Corporate Affairs Commission for the activities of the scheme promoters in the country. He said there should be proper scrutiny before the registration of any company by the commission, adding that regulators should clamp down on these companies to protect innocent investors. Okezie called for proper enlightenment of investors through the mass media, both print and electronic, to save innocent investors from falling prey. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 