Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Tragedy struck in Abuja on Christmas Day as a family of five died in a lone accident on Kubwa-Zuba expressway, Abuja. A 2005 Toyota SUV, with registration number, KUJ 615 TU, driven by one Samson Alowe, 42, crashed and burst into flames killing all the occupants, including his wife, Opeyemi, 40; daughter, Angel, 12; and two sons, Prosper, 10; and Fortune, 8. Findings indicated that the five family members were burnt to death. The Federal Road Safety Corps Education Officer, Commander Bisi Kazeem, attributed the crash to loss of control. A preliminary report showed the crash occurred around 10.04 pm, adding that the FRSC officials got to the scene within five minutes while fire service personnel extinguished the flames. The charred bodies of the victims were later removed from the vehicle by the FRSC operatives and evacuated to the Kubwa General Hospital mortuary. Our correspondent learnt their remains were buried on Friday. Families and friends of the Alowes have taken to the social media, mourning the victims. In a post on Facebook, Stevemonu Idowu, described Samson, who was the Chief Executive Officer of Profosan Project Ltd., as an actor, influencer and successful entrepreneur. He wrote, “If I was not there when you were buried today (Friday), I will never believe you have gone. Some people knew you as a nice brother but some of us knew you to be a man of God, a prophet indeed. “What you have taught us, especially me, I will never forget. You left the world as a young man but you impacted your generation like a successful 70-year-old man.” An acquaintance, Julius Ayodeji, also mourned the Alowes, noting that they were members of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Niger Province 2, Suleja. “Bro Samson Adetunji Alowe, a man of peace, very generous to people around. Beloved, all I will say in tears is sleep on…it is well,” he posted. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com