Deji Lambo A yet-to-be-identified electrician on Sunday allegedly attacked the Managing Director of Maersk Nigeria, Gildas Tohouo, at his residence in the Ikoyi area of Lagos State. It was gathered that the electrician perpetrated the crime in connivance with an accomplice. The PUNCH learnt that Mr Tohouo had organised a party in his house when the suspect invited his accomplice to join them at the party. After the party around 11.30pm, it was gathered, there was power outage in the building and the electrician offered to assist the couple in fixing the electricity problem. The couple was said to have opened the door, knowing that the electrician works for the estate, but immediately the suspects gained entrance, they allegedly attacked the man and his wife. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the suspects stabbed the man’s wife to death, adding that the man also sustained injuries and had been taken to the hospital. Elkana said, “The man had a party early in the day, and when people left, there was power outage. “So, the electrician knocked on the door, offering to help the couple fix their power. “When the door was opened, they attacked them, and stabbed the man and his wife. “The man survived, but the wife died due to the injuries she sustained from the attack. “The suspects wanted to rob the couple. “Two suspects — Ade Akanbi and Olamide Adegoke — have been arrested and the knives used in perpetrating the crime have been recovered. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has visited the scene, while homicide detectives have also cordoned off the area. “An investigation is ongoing.” Reacting to the development, the Regional Managing Director of Africa for A.P. Moller – Maersk, David Williams, while commiserating with the bereaved family, said the three children of the couple were safe, adding that the company was working with relevant authorities to investigate the incident. He said, “We are very sorry to confirm that a colleague and his family have been attacked in their residence in Lagos, Nigeria, during the evening of Sunday, December 8, 2019. “Tragically, the wife of our colleague passed away at the scene. Our colleague is in the hospital, where his condition is critical, but stable. The three children are all safe and accounted for. “Our thoughts and deepest sympathy go to the family. We will do whatever we can to support them in this tragedy.”