Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has warned new commissioners and special advisers in the State to forget about 2023 governorship position and focus on the implementation of the 2020 budget of the State. Wike issued this warning while swearing in 13 commissioners and 15 special advisers at the Government House in Port Harcourt on Monday. He told his new aides to resign immediately if they were in his administration to look for money to run for 2023 governorship position. The governor urged them to work for the interest of Rivers, describing their appointment as a rare privilege to serve the State. READ ALSO: BREAKING: ICPC reopens investigation into FIIRO DG PhD He said, “Work for the interest of Rivers State. This is a rare privilege to serve Rivers State. Everything must not be money. As it has pleased God, you have been given the opportunity to assist in the development of Rivers State. “Now that the State Executive Council has been formed, the implementation of the 2020 budget will start in earnest. If you know you are looking for money for 2023, resign now. “I will not hesitate to remove you. If I catch any commissioner or special adviser holding meetings on who will be governor in 2023, there will be sanctions,” the governor said. He charged the new commissioners and special advisers to always place the interest of Rivers State above all other considerations. Wike advised them to be loyal and committed to the service state, saying, “Loyalty is key. The loyalty should not be in half measures. Your loyalty must be 100 percent. You must be loyal and work for the state. All your actions must be targeted at the development of Rivers State.” Wike further said, “If we find out eventually that any of you is involved in the sponsorship of cult groups, that person will be shown the way out of government.” Explaining that commissioners, who will head the Ministries of Works, Health, Agriculture, Urban Development and Agriculture, must be up-and-doing, the governor said no excuses would be tolerated by the government. The governor said that he would continue to work as if it was his first term in office, promising that he will consolidate the delivery of projects across the State.