Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday said the All Progressives Congress had overstretched the limits of Nigerians by trivialising and politicising the frightening unemployment level under its government’s watch. It stated that the ruling party should be ready to face the consequences. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, had on Saturday reacted to an earlier statement issued by the PDP on the country’s unemployment rate. The PDP had said 40 million Nigerians lost their jobs under the APC But Issa-Onilu claimed that those who lost their jobs were the PDP looters who were sent out of their illegitimate jobs and not the “fictitious” 40 million Nigerians quoted by the PDP. He had said that  the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was determined to take the fight against corruption deeper and that more looters allegedly under the PDP should be ready to go to jail. But the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Sunday said for attempting to distort and muffle facts on unemployment, which are already in the public domain, the APC had confirmed that it remained an ‘Automated Lying Machine.’ He alleged that the APC had never been interested in the welfare of Nigerians. Ologbondiyan said, “It is shameful that in its attempt to deny that the number of unemployment persons and job losses across the formal and informal sectors had surged under its administration, the APC forgot that the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, had earlier disclosed that unemployment rate was at a frightening 23.1 per cent while raising the alarm that the rate will hit a devastating 33.5 per cent in 2020. “The APC also forgot that the minister, while declaring open a two-day workshop on high unemployment rate earlier in the year, reportedly described the situation as scary and further alerted that apart from the swelling unemployment rate, underemployment had also surged to 16.6 per cent. “The APC also chose not to remember that the National Bureau of Statistics, in an earlier report, stated that 16 million Nigerians (which has now risen to 18 million) were unemployed.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    