Feyisayo Popoola The Securities and Exchange Commission has assured investors in the capital market that there will be no future unclaimed dividends on those currently being declared by companies. The acting Director-General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, stated this in an interview with Channels Television. Uduk, who was represented by the Head, Office of the Chief Economist, SEC, Mr Okey Umeano, said the commission had gone very far in solving the unclaimed dividends problem, which was a major milestone. She said, “We have engaged Nigeria Interbank Settlement System to make use of the Bank Verification Number and we have got Central Securities Clearing System and the registrars working towards reducing it and there has been a marked reduction. “More importantly, we know that there would be no future unclaimed dividends, there would be no addition to the unclaimed dividends profile and we count that as a success. “We believe that once we solve the identity issues that we have presently, the problem of unclaimed dividends will be a thing of the past. Also we have continued with our education of the market; we are making more efforts towards awareness on what stakeholders need to know to make the market more attractive, make it better and protect the investors more.” Uduk stated that the commission was continuing the implementation of the 10-year capital market master plan to make the market more attractive to investors. She said, “This year, one of the things we decided to resolve was the unclaimed dividend problems, as well as regularisation of multiple accounts. “On all counts, we have made a lot of strides. Next year we are picking a few other things like derivatives trading, commodities trading ecosystem and strengthening the CIS segment of the market.” Uduk stated that the issues around multiple subscription was still on while she urged affected investors to regularise their accounts so that their shares could become active and they would be able to get the benefits of investing in the market. She added that the elimination of dividend warrants in the market had been a major game changer, saying “Investors are urged to register for e-dividend to access the benefits. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com