The leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress has reiterated that the National Minimum Wage law is binding on all, and that governors cannot pay below N30,000. NLC President, Dr. Ayuba Wabba, said this at one-day review meeting on the New National Minimum Wage with state council chairmen. He stressed the need for governors to ensure speedy conclusion of negotiations on implementation of the new wage Act. Wabba said since the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), signed the New Minimum Wage Act to law, every state governor was bound to respect the new wage structure and negotiate with labour to decide what the consequential increase should be. “All of us are aware that from the day the president signed the minimum wage bill into law it becomes enforceable. “It can be enforced through court of law, and certainly, there is no excuse for any state to say that it is not going to respect a law that is actually based on the constitution. “The national minimum wage is actually a constitutional issue, so clearly, it is about respecting our laws and also respecting international convention and procedures. “But importantly, it is to respect the principles of Tripatism, social dialogue in addressing industrial relation issues. “So clearly, you can see that we are providing this guide, so that we can also play our role effectively as National Labour Congress, as workers’ organisation, to be able to see that there is seamless implementation.” The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, while briefing State House correspondents said the Federal Government had given December 31, as the deadline for payment of arrears on consequential adjustments of the National Minimum Wage. “Council today approved for us that the financial implications be worked out by the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission, as consequential adjustments should take effect from April 18, the date the new national minimum wage came into being. “The Council also approved for us that the financial implications be worked out and the attendant payments completed on or before December 31. “Council further directed that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, through the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, should effect all these payments as scheduled before December 31,” Ngige said.