Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Peoples Democratic Party in Katsina State on Sunday rejected the declaration of Ibrahim Danjuma of the All Progressives Congress as winner of the Sabuwa State Constituency’s bye-election held on Saturday. The PDP Katsina State Chairman, Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, made the declaration shortly after the final results of the bye-election were announced by the Returning Officer, Dr Usman Bello of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Majigiri told journalists in Sabuwa that the bye-election was marred by alleged irregularities, vote buying and substantial non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act. He said the party would challenge the results at the election petitions tribunal. “We will go to court because this election cannot stand legal scrutiny. There were several cases of irregularities, including vote buying and falsification of results,” he said. The Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly and an APC member, Alhaji Dalhatu Tafoki, described the PDP’s declaration as typical of a serial political loser. He said, “This electoral victory demonstrates the implicit confidence the people have in the APC and we shall strive to deliver on our mandates. “The allegation by the PDP is not new, it has become their renewed political culture and hallmark, and we know they will always fail even at the courts.” The bye-election was conducted to fill the vacuum created in Sabuwa Constituency following the death of its former occupant, Mustapha Abdullahi, in July. Five political parties participated in the bye-election which witnessed low turnout of voters. The returning officer declared Ibrahim of the APC as the winner, having  scored 11,745 votes to defeat  his closest rival, Ibrahim Shafiu of the PDP, who scored 6,160. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 