Umar Muhammed, Lafia A former Director-General of the National Orientation Agency, Dr Mike Omeri, has called on Governor Abdullah Sule of Nasarawa State to revoke all state government properties sold by the immediate past governor, Tanko Al-Makura. Al-Makura had towards the end of his eight years term as governor sold the state government’s assets in Plateau, Kaduna and Lagos states and liquidated the state’s Investment and Property Development Company. Speaking during a one-day conference on harnessing economic potential of Nasarawa State for development organised by the indigenes of the state working and residing in Abuja, Omeri informed the governor during the technical session that if he was serious about harnessing the economic potential of the state, then he must revoke all the state government’s assets that were sold by his predecessor. He said, “We can’t be talking about alternative source of revenue when our assets in Jos, Kaduna and Lagos are sold, we can’t be talking about harnessing economic potential of the state when the state investment company is liquidated. You must revoke the sale of these properties and bring back our investment company.” The former information commissioner in the state, however, averred that no state or country could excel solely from federal allocation. He maintained that the assets were the state’s share of the properties inherited when Nasarawa State was created out of Plateau State in 1996 and that there was absolutely no need to sell them. Earlier, the governor, who was the special guest of honour, stated that indigenes of the state must not wait until they were as rich as Aliko Dangote or Bill Gates before they could lend their hands of support towards the development of the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  