Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria has reiterated its call for the creation and full implementation of Education Development Bank to facilitate the achievement of 21 per cent budget ratio for education prescribed by United Nations Development Programme. The call was contained in a statement signed by the Head, Corporate Communications & External Relations, CIBN, Nelson Olagundoye. The President, CIBN, Dr. Uche Olowu, who made the call during a stakeholders’ engagement with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, (retd.), said that the bank would manage all subsisting intervention funds set up toward ensuring education for all and enhancing its quality in the country. He said the establishment of the bank would provide the platform for all the strategic stakeholders in the education sector to access short to long- term loans at a single digit interest. The Institute expressed concerns on the erroneous public impression that banks were making huge profits at the expenses of the other sectors of the economy without any empirical evidence. Olowu expressed concerns on the banking industry on multiplicity of taxes by various governments which had continued to hamper their business operations and provisions of Land Use Act, impacting negatively on their abilities to extend mortgage- backed facilities. He appealed for the urgent harmonisation of the taxes to reduce the burden on the banks and review of the Land Use Act to state property and security rights, and address the bureaucratic process occasioned by governor’s consent. While the CIBN president acknowledged Buhari’s political will and tenacity of purpose to rebuild the economy, and address the security challenges in the various parts of the country, he reaffirmed the commitment of the banking and finance industry towards ensuring a stable and secured financial system. According to the statement, Buhari, who received the CIBN team told them that he was proud to note that Nigeria has the most vibrant , creative and innovative banking sector in Africa. He commended the industry’s collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria,  which had been a key anchor to his government’s food security programme. In the statement, Buhari said he was aware of the challenges that hindered the banks’ abilities to lend to the real sector, and explained that his government was also facing such challenges in the implementation of its various housing programmes. Buhari urged the state governments to assist in addressing the issues by simplifying and rationalising land matters while he promised to look into other concerns of the industry. He stated that he was proud to see the branches of Nigerian banks when he visited other African countries. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    