Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The organised labour in Ekiti State on Monday warned the management of Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti, against the alleged planned mass sacking of workers. The State Chairmen of Trade Union Congress, Sola Adigun; Nigerian Labour Congress, Kolapo Olatunde and Joint Negotiating Council, Kayode Fatomiluyi, said the management needed to have a rethink to avert industrial disharmony in the state. The labour leaders, who spoke with journalists in Ado Ekiti after a closed-door session with the hospital management, issued a 14-day ultimatum within which the management should find a way to resolve the issues surrounding the planned sack and effect payment of all outstanding salaries, deductions and other benefits to avert withdrawal of services by staff of the institution. Adigun said, “When we came for this interface, we thought it was a rumour that workers will be sacked. But we have confirmed the intending plan to sack our people here. We cannot allow our members to be working under a condition of service that is not palatable. They should not be in a hurry to sack because this will lead to our withdrawal of services. “We have issued a 14-day ultimatum for all issues to be resolved. Sack should not be a New Year package for our members because many are still working hard despite being owed several months of salaries and deductions, even without promotions. “We say no to any unjustifiable sack of our members. What we are experiencing is not the best. A situation whereby you brought a consultant to conduct interviews for workers and sent the names of workers you felt should be disengaged to the media for announcement is not fashionable, it is not done like this anywhere. “Government must look inwards and increase its internally generated revenue. Nigeria Customs Service has increased its monthly revenue generations, by plugging all loopholes. There is also an increment in oil supply at the international level, all these will help the Ekiti economy in 2020 so that the subvention to the hospital can be increased. Sack is not the best option,” he said. The TUC boss added that the organised labour would resist an attempt to sack workers without following public service laid down rules, saying sack was not the best option to compensate staff that had made sacrifices for effective healthcare delivery in the hospital. The Chairman, Joint Health Sectors Union, Farotimi Omotola, who disagreed with the rumour that EKSUTH had over-bloated workforce, said the health facility was grossly understaffed due to persistent brain-drain being experienced in all departments. 