Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has said the 2020 budget was designed to block leakages and systemic corruption within the civil bureaucracy and governance process. The governor said this on Monday when he received the Transparency and Accountability Network and other civil society groups in his office in commemoration of the International Anti-Corruption Day. The governor said, “We have zero tolerance for corruption. Some of the things this administration is doing to ensure zero tolerance for corruption include the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, which is the process for budgeting and planning. It is one in which plans are done over a medium term and from which the annual budget is derived.” He said he was committed to financial transparency, accountability; hence, the adoption of SFTAS (State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability) programme. [READ ALSO] Oshiomhole’s fate: Govs plot to install Buhari’s successor “What it means is that all the activities of government are put in public domain. We are also implementing the Public procurement law. Through the Procurement Law, we are going to ensure that we get real value for projects, the process for contract awards, procuring resources for the benefit of the state is done transparently and in line with global best practices.” He also said his government had introduced the Government Delivery Unit to ensure a corruption-free state. The unit, he said, would ensure that all projects embarked on by the state government are done on time and on budget. In his remarks, the convener, TAN-Ogun State, Mrs Adebanke Akinrimisi, disclosed that the commemoration of the Year 2019 International Anti-Corruption Day was an important event designed to raise awareness on the risks associated with different forms of corruption.  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 