Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Gunmen in military uniforms on Wednesday and Thursday kidnapped five persons, including a district head. The two separate operations took place in Birnin Gwari and Sabon Tasha in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. While two, including the district head, were abducted at Birnin Gwari; three sons a businessman, were kidnapped at the Sabon Tasha area. The kidnappers, it was gathered, stormed the home of the father of the three, Mr Christian Obi, and abducted the sons. The three sons are Jonathan (31), Joachim (28) and Benjamin (21). As of the time of filing this report, the kidnappers had yet to call to make demands. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Police Command has confirmed the incident, adding also that two persons, including a district head, were kidnapped by gunmen in the Birnin-Gwari area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer, Yakubu Sabo, said the command received information on the two separate kidnap cases through the divisional police officers at Buruku and Sabon Tasha. On the Birnin Gwari abduction, the police chief said gunmen in military uniforms intercepted a commuter vehicle along the Birnin Gwari Road by Ungwan Yako and abducted the two occupants of the vehicle. Sabo said, “The victims were identified as Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, the district head of Birnin Gwari and Alhaji Ibrahim Musa, a former education secretary of the Birnin Gwari LGA.” READ ALSO: 35-year-old man remanded for armed robbery in Ebonyi “Similar unfortunate incident of kidnapping was recorded at Sabon Tasha in the Chikun LGA where three persons, namely Jonathan Obi, Joakin Obi and Benjamin Obi, all of the same address, were kidnapped around 0200hours of today (Thursday) by suspected hoodlums to unknown destination.” He noted that the command had deployed police operatives in the two affected areas. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 