Feyisayo Popoola Stockbrokers are awaiting the take-off of the demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, which is believed to open up multiple options for securities dealers in Nigeria. The Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria, Chief Oyinyechukwu Ezeagu, said with the emergence of NASD Plc and FMDQ Securities Exchange Plc, which had become a full-fledged exchange, the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange was expected to commence operations soon as a Pan African Exchange. He described the development as heartwarming, saying it would bring multiple income streams to stockbrokers’ table. He said, “The new trend in the financial market is that operators have multiple options for professional practice. These go along with multiple income streams on the table of market operators. “We are looking at a broad range of markets and the readiness of operators to participate in these markets.  We have seen an expansion in fixed income investments, in government securities and renewed interests in the commodities market.” Ezeagu noted that equities had been dwindling all over the world becoming enigmatic for traders who could not keep up with continuous price volatility, especially where other asset classes like fixed income proved better alternatives. He said this had serious implications to the operators who held equities as part of their capital as they had to contend with pressures from regulators to maintain the minimum regulatory capital requirement. Ezeagu said, “The impending demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange has been in the works for a while and ASHON has been involved in the discussions. “We are gearing up to this new responsibility and the benefits we expect to flow from the laudable venture. Our members are being repositioned to operate under the demutualised Exchange.” He stated that ASHON’s members were currently the owners of the NSE and had embarked on strategic restructuring to bolster the members’ image, consolidate a formidable team and review internal processes among others. He added that it was expected that they would transform from being members to shareholders soon. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com