Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command says it has arrested 53 suspected cultists and a traffic robber for their involvement in violent crimes in different parts of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants, constituted by the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, arrested the suspects for engaging in traffic robberies, murder and sexual assaults. He stated that the operation of the special force was to collate actionable information on the activities of miscreants, adding that members of the team were drawn from tactical units, the State Intelligence Bureau, Operations Department and the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department. The operation of the special force is being coordinated by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Odubona Oludotun. Elkana stated, “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has launched a Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants in Lagos State. The team is tasked with the responsibility of dislodging social miscreants in the state. Such miscreants are operating under different names such as One Million Boys, No Salary Boys, Awawa Boys, etc. “The miscreants are responsible for a series of violent crimes and attacks in different communities and neighbourhoods. They also engage in traffic robberies, assaults, murder and sexual assaults. “The operation is mostly intelligence-driven and involves the collation of actionable information about the activities of such miscreants, their membership and hideouts, and taking the battle to their doorsteps. Members of the task force were drawn from tactical units, the State Intelligence Bureau, Operations Department and the SCIID, with ACP Odubona Oludotun as its chairman. “The team was established in response to the recent activities of those miscreants in Ijegun, Itire, Isheri etc., where they vandalised some vehicles and destroyed some properties of innocent citizens for no just cause. “Eleven suspects were initially arrested and charged. Items recovered from the suspects included two locally-made pistols, eleven axes, nine cutlasses, four daggers and charms. The 50 suspects of the One Million Boys in custody are being profiled. “The CP uses this medium to send a strong warning to members of such violent gangs that the command will pursue them, subdue them and bring them to justice.” In another development, three suspected cultists have been arrested for terrorising residents of the Bariga area of the state. Elkana said detectives from the Bariga Police Station arrested one of the suspects, Idowu Samuel, 21, in his hideout at No. 40 Akin Akinlo Street, Bariga. In a follow-up investigation, Oyins Matins, 28, and Ernest Arojiem, 30, were arrested on the Community Road in the Akoka area of Bariga. Elkana said, “On Monday, November 25, 2019, around 4.05am, acting on credible intelligence, detectives from the Bariga Police Station raided a criminal hideout at No. 40 Akinlo Street, Bariga. One Idowu Samuel, 21, a dreaded Aiye Confraternity leader in Bariga, was arrested. The suspect has been on the police wanted list for murder and robbery cases. “In a follow-up investigation on Thursday, November 28, 2019, around 4.25am, detectives arrested one Oyins Matins, 28; and Ernest Arojiem, 30, on Community Road in Akoka, both are members of the Eiye Confraternity. The suspects will be charged.” Similarly, a suspected traffic robber, Segun Akinwande, was arrested for snatching a motorcycle from a commercial motorcyclist in the Ketu area of the state. Elkana stated, “On Wednesday, November 24, 2019, around 7am, operatives from the Ketu Police Station on traffic surveillance arrested one Segun Akinwande at the BRT bus stop in Ketu. He was arrested with a motorcycle he snatched from a commercial operator. One locally-made pistol was recovered from him. The suspect will be charged.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  