Ife Ogunfuwa The Nigeria Communications Commission has asked the Mobile Number Operators to consider imposing a 45-day porting restriction period on newly activated SIM cards. The commission gave this advice after conducting a comprehensive compliance audit on the Mobile Number Portability Platform from September 4 to 6, 2019 in Lagos. In view of the findings of the audit, the NCC advised the MNP Industry Technical Working Group to discuss the possibility of the 45-day porting restriction period. The commission also reviewed other provisions of the MNP that enabled the subscribers to leave their network operator for another one. Mobile number portability was introduced by the NCC in 2013 to encourage competition and ensure that consumers continue to enjoy quality services on all the mobile networks. It said the audit aimed to examine the level of success of National Porting Clearing house’s migration of the MNP platform to its new technical partners, Porting Access Limited, and conduct an in-depth review of planned or unplanned technical faults that occurred within the period under review. The commission also called on the Mobile Network Operators to remove the power to carry out ‘Emergency Repatriations’ and ‘Return to Block Operator’ from their front-end agents to mitigate the emerging trend of abuse of laid down processes and procedures. The NCC also directed the operators to ensure the fields for inputting the MSISDN in porting request forms had only 10 digits. The regulator said there was a need for the MNOs to educate and train front-end members of staff to ensure the correct donor networks and the MSISDN were specified before details were sent to the NPC. The NCC also urged the operators to strictly comply with the conditions for ‘Emergency Repatriations’ and ‘Return to Block Operator’ in line with the provisions of the MNP business rules, as well as the consequences for non-compliance. “In view of the relatively low amount of porting transactions, the commission will carry out robust awareness campaigns to enlighten consumers on the availability of Mobile Number Portability Scheme,” the regulator added. During the exercise in Lagos, the NCC said the technical team audited all port rejections by the donor to ensure that these rejections were within the valid reasons for rejection in the MNP Business Rules. According to the commission, the current status of outstanding MNP fees owed to the NPC administrator by Mobile Network Operators and all ‘Emergency Repatriations’ and ‘Return to Block Operator’ transactions for the past five months (October, 2018 – February, 2019) were examined. Meanwhile, the latest NCC data indicated that incoming porting activities increased by 42 per cent from 14,375 in September to 20,476 in October 2019. The outgoing porting activities reduced by 32 per cent from 14,354 in September to 9,801 in October 2019, the report showed. Incoming or inward porting refers to the movement of subscribers from a service provider’s network to another service provider’s network. Outgoing or outward porting means the movement of subscribers to a service provider’s network from another provider’s network. Meanwhile, findings showed that Nigerians preferred to own more than one SIM card instead of porting to another network. The President, National Association of Telecoms Subscribers, Adeolu Ogunbanjo, who spoke on the issue recently described mobile number portability as a crucial service in the telecoms industry, irrespective of the frequency of utilisation by subscribers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    