Leke Baiyewu The House of Representatives has commended the Central Bank of Nigeria for the downward review of the charges imposed by deposit money banks on their customers. The House said the development  would  help reduce the hardship in the country. The list of subsisting bank charges includes ATM card maintenance charge, which attracts over N50 monthly, account maintenance fees, which vary with volume of transactions, while an SMS notification fee of about N200/month, with multiple token maintenance fees are charged on all customer accounts. Chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency, Victor Nwokolo, who spoke to our correspondent on Saturday, said the move by the CBN was due to the House’s intervention. Nwokolo said, “Remember that there was a motion where the House mandated the committee to discuss  with the CBN, to see how they could  ameliorate and listen to the Nigerians who were complaining about the charges. Again, the CBN Governor (Godwin Emefiele) has always made commitments that what he is doing is in the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians. “So, what we are seeing today is due to his commitments and as a result of the interface between the National Assembly and the CBN. Of course, Nigerians are happy. It is a very welcome development. That shows you that with time, things will be better and the burden of charges on Nigerians will be reduced. “Of course,  the CBN and the governor are also listening to the yearnings of Nigerians. As Nigerians were complaining to the National  Assembly, they were also writing on  social media and through you (the media). So, this is due to everybody’s contribution. In any case, it is a response to the demands by Nigerians.” On the  efficiency of  the technology deployed for banking activities and online transactions, especially as many ATMs are not functioning, Nwokolo said, “A journey of a thousand miles begins with a step. There was a time we were using ledger, then typewriter, and later computer. We expect that with time, there will be more efficiency in human and technological management. In less than one to two years, things should be better.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    