LEKE BAIYEWU examines the volume of bills presented and passed by the National Assembly and issues frustrating them from becoming laws for the benefit of Nigerians From the beginning of the Fourth Republic in 1999, when democracy returned to Nigeria, successive national assemblies continued to pass more bills, most of which the president does not assent to. Each assembly often boasts of the number of bills passed as an indication of a better performance than the previous ones. Close observers of how bills are presented, processed and passed by the National Assembly and the disposition of successive presidents to the legislations have identified various factors that are frustrating lawmaking in the country. Recently, a former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Attahiru Jega, said President Muhammadu Buhari gave assent to only 80 bills out of the 515 passed by the 8th National Assembly. This was contained in the executive summary of a report on the scorecard of the 8th Assembly and the lessons for the current 9th Assembly. The report, entitled, ‘Scorecard of the 8th National Assembly: Report of a performance assessment of the 8th National Assembly in Nigeria’s 4th Republic’, notes that in terms of gestation period, some of the bills took long to be passed. It stated that ideally, a bill should averagely take less than six months to pass but out of the 515 bills, only 47 (9.1 per cent) were passed within 50 days, while a whopping 271 (52.6 per cent) took over 351 days. The report read in part, “Furthermore, 14 bills were passed within 100 days, 12 within 150 days, 80 within 200 days, 41 within 250 days, 23 within 300 days and 27 within 350 days. Notably, most of the bills passed within 50 days were either executive bills or, of emergency nature.” “Specifically, 2,166 bills were introduced, out of which 515 pieces of legislation were passed, including 21 constitution-alteration bills, five of which received presidential assent. “The Senate passed a total of 172 bills while the House of Representatives passed 343 bills within the same period. Some of these bills could be regarded as landmark or significant for the widespread interest they generated, high media attention, pertinent issues they addressed and overall high perception of their potential impacts. It named the bills to include the North-East Development Commission Bill and the Not Too Young to Run Bill, among others, adding “Of all those bills, 53 were declined presidential assent and only about 80 (15.5 per cent) received assent although several bills were still awaiting assent at the time of study. However, data on the number of bills transmitted to the President for assent were not available. Over the same period, 15 bills were withdrawn while 33 were negative – killed.” More or fewer bills? Political analysts have said the issue of whether the performance of the National Assembly can be scaled by the number of bills presented by members and passed is debatable. They based their argument on the percentage of bills passed by the National Assembly against the number eventually signed into law by the president. In June 2018, the then President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, described the Eighth National Assembly as the most productive since 1999, going by the number of bills passed. He said the lawmakers passed 213 bills and handled 138 petitions in three years – as of that month. Saraki, in a statement on June 11 by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, said, “In three short but eventful years, we have definitely come a long way in this 8th Senate. We have worked assiduously and diligently to meet the demands of Nigerians and a changing economy that experienced a recession just a year after we assumed office. “In this time, we have passed 213 bills, cleared 138 petitions submitted by the public. We are happy to say that this Senate is the most productive since 1999. It has surpassed the 5th Senate, which with 129 bills in four years, had the highest number of bills, as against the 6th Senate with 72 bills, and 128 passed by the 7th Senate. The number of petitions we have successfully treated to the satisfaction of Nigerians who filed them dwarfed the eight and six treated by the sixth and seventh Senate respectively.” Meanwhile, towards the end of the Eighth Assembly, Saraki said the Buhari-led executive managed to sponsor 11 bills in four years. The then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, in a statement issued on April 23, 2019, by his Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs, Turaki Hassan, equally said, “We have passed more bills than any Assembly before us, including bills that are helping the government improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria, and there were times we passed bills within two legislative days.” On November 21, 2018, the then Minority Leader of the House, Mr Edward Pwajok warned that the 8th National Assembly might not be able to conclude work on its bills, noting that there were holidays ahead, such as Christmas and New Year, 2019 general elections and Easter (in 2019). Pwajok said the 8th Assembly introduced more than 1500 bills while more were still being sponsored. He noted that the legislature had only about seven months left to end the session. He recalled that the 7th Assembly was forced to pass 40 bills within one week as it was about to close. Meanwhile, in the Ninth National Assembly inaugurated on June 11, 2019, bills sponsorship is fast increasing. Between June 11 and July 25 when the lawmakers went on their two-month annual recess, the House already had 287 to deal with. After resumption on September 17, more bills have been introduced. Speaking at the second public lecture organised by the Legislative Digest marking the 20th anniversary of the National Assembly in the Fourth Republic, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, represented by the Chairman House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, said, “It is also remarkable that the last Assembly introduced a total of 2,569 bills and passed 704 of them, an improvement from the 7th Assembly which introduced 1,063 and passed 106. “Moving forward, we must learn from the mistakes of the previous assemblies and build on their achievements for the good of the nation. The 9th House will do just that. So far, we have hit the ground running. As of Wednesday, July 24, 2019, barely a month post-inauguration, 287 bills had passed first reading, with two passing second reading in the House.” However, regardless of the value the National Assembly and Nigerians as a whole place on a bill, the federal parliament has been able to veto only one. The federal parliament had vetoed President Muhammadu Buhari on the bill establishing the Niger Delta Development Commission. Despite the efforts by the Eighth National Assembly led by Bukola Saraki as President of the Senate and Yakubu Dogara as Speaker of the House, the lawmakers failed to veto the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2018. When new laws contradict old ones There are cases where National Assembly proposes laws that contradict the old ones or where the objectives of a proposed regulation clash with those existing ones. Such bills, after being rejected by the President, are often reviewed either by the lawmakers or the Department of Legal Services of the National Assembly. At the Senate’s plenary on February 6, 2018, the then Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the session, read a letter by Buhari in which the President expressed reservations about three bills over due to ‘lack of clarity,’ inconsistency and conflict with the Constitution. The bills were the Police Procurement Fund (Establishment) Bill 2017, Chartered Institute of Management of Nigeria Bill 2017, and the Nigerian Council for Social Works (Establishment) Bill 2017. Another instance was when the President on April 26, 2019, withdrew assent from the Nigeria Tourism Development Authority (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill 2019 in a letter to the National Assembly dated May 8, 2019. Buhari noted, among other things, that the provisions of Section 14(d) and Section 30 (2d) contradicted Section 4 (1-3) and Paragraph 60 (d) of the Second Schedule of the Constitution as declared by the Supreme Court and the Attorney General of the Federation. In another letter with same date, the President withdrew assent from the Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority Bill 2019, in a letter to the National Assembly dated May 8, 2019, “because the comprehensive definition of the Nigeria inland waterways covers virtually all rivers, lakes and lagoons irrespective of the location of the body.” Besides, he said, “The bill contradicts provisions of the Constitution which limits the power of the National Assembly to make laws in relation to water from sources affecting more than one state of inland waterways, which has been declared to be an international waterway or inter-state waterway. The bill, as currently drafted, subjects the Ministry of Water Resources, the Ministry of Environment and the Nigeria Ports Authority to supervision by the Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority.” Country’s needs vs. lawmakers/presidency desires By November 2018, the process by the National Assembly to create 80 new federal universities, polytechnics and colleges of education had reached various stages. If the new higher institutions were created, the total number of federal schools would have risen to 164. Between then and May 2019 when the Eighth National Assembly wound down, more institutions seeking to establish different schools in various parts of the country were introduced. More institutions were being proposed despite poor funding for the existing tertiary institutions. In the 2018 Appropriation Act, the 84 existing federal government tertiary institutions across the country were allocated N367bn out of the over N600bn approved for the education sector. Error ridden documents Bills passed by the National Assembly also suffer setbacks due to a lack of thorough processes on them. The issue of errors, which the president pointed out in some of the bills, has also been admitted by the presiding officers. For instance, Saraki, at the Senate’s plenary of July 5, 2018, read a letter from President Buhari dated June 18, in which the President notified the lawmakers of his decision to withdraw assent to the Radiographers Registration Amendment Bill. The President said, “This is due to the expansion of the scope of persons covered by the bill which we are concerned would create disharmony in the health sector between radiographers and radiologists who are regulated separately. I also note that there is a minor error in Section 2(a) of the amendment bill where the word “substituting” is mis-spelt as “substittuting.” Later on December 12, 2018, Gbajabiamila, then as Majority Leader of the House, spoke on behalf of the All Progressives Congress caucus, describing the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, which was the fourth version the National Assembly would pass and transmit to the President, as an “imperfect document.” He said the National Assembly could not override Buhari’s veto especially as the President also noted drafting errors in the bill. Gbajabiamila added, “But let me say very quickly: perhaps, a lot of people don’t understand the import and the implication of signing an imperfect document. If the document is imperfect and you can read it or interpret it anyhow, or if a count was remove when it should have been there, then you can’t even override an imperfect document. You have to first of all amend that document and start the process all over again, and send it back to Mr. President.” The Speaker would later on July 17, 2019, lamented errors in bills. He urged the National Assembly Management to ensure that they always produce clean copies of bills to be transmitted to the President to avoid cases of rejection. He warned that the mistakes of the past where typographical errors and others were allowed in drafted bills that eventually got to the President for assent must be avoided this time round. “The Legal Department is somewhere that needs to be beefed up. I don’t think we’re doing what we’re supposed to be doing yet. We have errors in bills sent to the President. But with the Legal Department, we should be able to dot the ‘I’s’ and cross the ‘T’s.’ If you need to employ more hands, tell us. If you need to present a proposal or need consultants, let us know so that we can come in,” the Speaker stated. Challenges at committee levels After the second hearing when bills are debated on the floor of the legislative chamber, they are referred to committees to conduct public hearing on the legislations to take inputs from stakeholders – individuals and organisations – in the respective sector. The committees are to report back to the chamber while consideration and adoption of the reports serves as the third reading and passage. Sunday PUNCH reliably learnt that committees got an average of N2m to conduct a public hearing on each bill or an hearing could feature multiple bills which have related subject matters. Nevertheless, several bills literally died in the hands of the committees in the last Assembly. In the Eighth House, almost a hundred bills spent between one and three years without passage. The House had between November and December withdrawn at least 68 of such bills from the various relevant committees they were referred to, out of which 19 passed the first reading as early as 2015. The committees, which failed to file reports on the bills, some of which were referred to them since January 2016, have the bills withdrawn from them and re-committed to the Committee of the Whole. The House on November 21 withdrew 25 bills from 18 standing committees. In that batch of bills, the dates of referral ranged from January 14, 2016 to March 23, 2017. Also on November 27, committees were discharged of 28 bills. Again on December 6, the House took over 15 bills, referred to committees between November 16, 2016 and January 26, 2017. The then Chairman, House Committee on Rules and Business, Mr Edward Pwajok, noted that the bills separately passed second reading between 2016 and 2017, and were referred to the respective committees for legislative action. “The House is aware that the committees have yet to present reports on the bills, contrary to the provisions of Order 17, Rule 3(1)(g) of the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives, to wit; ‘Any matter referred to any committee shall be treated within 30 days, otherwise the committee shall stand discharged after 60 days and the matter committed to the Committee of the Whole for consideration,” Pwajok said. A mild drama played out on November 21, 2018, when the first set of committees was discharged of the bills referred to them. A member, Betty Apiafi (now in the Senate), raised a point of order to challenge adoption of Pwajok’s motion, claiming that most of the committees were not adequately funded. “Under normal circumstances, if expenditure exceeds budget and there is no adequate funding, what happens?” She asked. The then Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, dismissed the claim, saying the leadership of the chamber was not aware of any committee in a financial crisis. The then Majority Leader (Gbajabiamila) also dismissed Apiafi’s claim, decrying that the committees spent funds to conduct public hearings on the bills, only to withhold their reports on them. “It is important that we take our rules and discharge the responsibilities of our committees very seriously,” he said. Gbajabiamila cited the example of a motion he moved on estimated billing by electricity firms, which he said Dogara also showed interest in and generated public attention. He decried that no report had been presented by the ad hoc committee set up on the matter by the House since it held a public hearing in July. He said, “The committee, which I co-chair, has refused to submit its report,” he said, adding, “It is becoming a national embarrassment to this House. Tax payers’ money was used to fund the public hearing. But today, more is the word. Today we are asking, ‘what is happening to the estimated billing case?’ I am also bringing that up.” Supporting Gbajabiamila’s stance, Mr Mohammed Monguno, also said Apiafi was wrong to have said committees were not adequately funded. “With all sense of humility, I am a fourth timer here and out of the four sessions I chaired committees twice and we had adequate funding all through. It is not correct to say the House leadership is not adequately funding committees, at least to the best of my knowledge, not my committee,” he said. Defending the lawmakers, the immediate past Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Abdulrazak Namdas, blamed non-performance by the committees on paucity of fund. The lawmaker, who is now heading the House Committee on Nigerian Army, however, noted that abandoned bills could be revisited. Namdas said, “Partly, we are experiencing paucity of fund. It will require funding to conduct public hearings; we will have to advertise it in the media. And the bills are many; we have over a thousand bills that have been processed. So, you can imagine the number. This House in the 8th Assembly has passed more bills than any other House. But where we see that a bill has taken too long with a committee, the Rules provide that we can take it back to the House -Committee of the Whole.” The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Benjamin Kalu, had in a recent interview with PUNCH admitted that quality should supersede quantity in the passage of bills. He also explained the efforts being made by the 9th National Assembly to achieve this. Kalu had said, “The question Nigerians should ask is, ‘what makes the President not to sign those bills?’ It is not about the quantity of the bills or how much numbers we have. It is the quality of the job. The quality of the job on those bills, they were not well done. A punctuation mark in a document that has to do with law could change the full interpretation and meaning of that particular line. “The 8th Assembly made some good laws and I’m sure that most of those laws, the President did not refuse to sign them because they were bad laws. But some of them were ambiguous because of the way they were drafted, and they were returned (to the National Assembly) to be fine-tuned. What the 9th Assembly is doing is to make sure that we work closely with the Nigerian Institute of Legislative and Democratic Studies.’’ Desired bills, expected focus Commenting on the matter, the Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Mr Auwal Musa, identified four factors that frustrate bills in the legislature. The political scientist stated that it was a function of negligence, capacity, limited resources and disinterest in legislative work. Musa said, “What usually happens especially in a situation where bills are dumped is largely that some of the bills are private member bills and they don’t get much attention. If they are coming from the executive, they get much attention because the President has assistants on legislative matters for the Senate and House of Representatives, who make sure that all bills sent by the executive are attended to by the National Assembly. “Also, some of the government ministries, departments and agencies have bills that affect them and can cultivate and motivate the National Assembly to work on their bills. “Sometimes because of the capacity deficit, the committees are not able to work on some of the bills. Sometimes if they don’t have the resources to carry out public and investigative hearings, and if the committees do not produce thorough reports, they will be dumped. Sometimes also, it depends on the leadership of the committee. If the person is not interested in the work, it will be abandoned. If a bill is referred to a particular committee chairman who is not interested in doing the work, it will also suffer. “If nobody is pushing or monitoring them to take action on their responsibility, it will be abandoned. Many times when there is no pressure on such negligence, you will see bills abandoned.” On the quality and quantity of bills being processed and passed by the National Assembly, the CISLAC boss said the executive and the legislature had not been working closely for the betterment of the country. “Because of the lack of working relationship, the National Assembly and the executive appear to be on opposition to another,” he said. In his contribution, a lecturer in the Department of Political Science of the University of Abuja, Prof Saleh Dauda, stated that a parliament had more duties than just passing bills. He noted that sustaining the principle of checks and balances and carrying out oversight functions was one responsibility that the National Assembly should give equal attention. Dauda said, “The primary function of the legislature, apart from passage of bills, is to serve as a check on the excesses of the executive. Once an Assembly fails to do that, it is not operating in line with the presidential system of government, which envisages that the three arms of government are supposed to act interdependently. The National Assembly, as presently constituted; I’m afraid we are going to have a National Assembly that everything coming from the executive – from the President – will have a smooth sail without looking at the critical aspects of it. I am afraid, we may be leaning towards a situation whereby the executive will always have its way, irrespective of whether the bills emanating from that arm of government is credible or not. These are my fears.” He, however, stated that where bills must be passed, they should be of high quality which, when signed into law, would greatly impact on the life of Nigerians. “It is not the number of bills; it depends on the quality of the bills. It is the quality, not quantity. And it is not every frivolous bill that is introduced that must be passed. We want to see the quality of the bills that will impact positively on governance and public policy,” he said. In his submission, the Executive Director of the Centre for Social Justice, Eze Onyekpere, also said a lawmaker was expected to make laws, while pointing out that the laws must have quality. Onyekpere said, “When you call them lawmakers, that means they are there to make laws. The point is not about the number of bills, the point should be about the quality of bills that are being introduced. If they have introduced the right quality of bills, that will be great. They can do lawmaking, representation and oversight, so lawmaking is part of their responsibility.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 