Peter Dada, Akure Two kids, identified as Igulapelewe Inuesokan and Justinah Seiwei, have been declared missing in the Ajakpa community of the Ese Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State. It was gathered that the children had been missing since last Friday following the flood that swept through the community. It was learnt that the parents of the children were not at home at the time of their disappearance and that when they returned, the two children were discovered to be missing. Residents suspected that the children might have been swept away by the flood. A community leader, High Chief Godwin Akpos, who disclosed this to our correspondent on the telephone, said the children’s disappearance was strongly linked to the flood, which wreaked havoc in the town. He said “Something like this never happened in this community before now. The situation has badly affected the entire community; no house was spared by the flood, including schools and churches. “The flood started four days ago but today (Sunday) is the worst. All our houses and belongings are gone. It is so unfortunate that we lost two children to the incident.” Akpos, who lamented that the flood had caused starvation in the community, appealed to the government and relevant agencies to come to the aid of the inhabitants by providing relief materials for them. Commenting on the development, the Principal of the Okubama High School, Ajakpa, Mr Luke Azerege, described the situation as very pathetic, saying the flood had taken over the entire school premises, thereby making teaching and learning impossible. He appealed to the different levels of government for urgent action in order to bring succour to the community, which he noted was in serious need of help. When contacted the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, said he had not been briefed about the incide. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 