Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The police in Katsina State on Monday arrested the owner of a rehabilitation centre in Daura where over 300 inmates were being    subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment.  Some of the teachers were also said to have sexually molested the inmates at the centre owned by Mallam Bello Maialmajri. The 78-year-old cleric was arrested alongside two other men, whose names were not disclosed. Last month, the police in Kaduna State rescued over 300 boys from an Islamic school, where they were allegedly chained,   sexually abused and tortured. The  Katsina State   Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba, who led the operation at about  1pm, expressed shock at the new discovery. The centre is located at Nasarawa Quarters,  in the   Sabongari area of  Daura. Daura is President Muhammadu Buhari’s hometown. After inspecting the rehabilitation centre, Buba ordered the  Daura Divisional Police Officer, ASP M.O.Wakili,  cordon off the centre. The CP  said, “We learnt that the inmates here are over 300.  The inmates revolted yesterday (Sunday) because of the inhuman treatment they were being subjected to. “Some of the inmates escaped while the ones you are seeing, about 60,  stayed back. READ ALSO: Water tanker driver flees after crushing engineer “The inmates are from various parts of Nigeria, including Katsina,  as well as from  Niger Republic. I will meet with the Emir of Daura and Governor Aminu Masari on the issue. We will do the profiling of the remaining inmates  to determine where they are from and we will thereafter appeal to their parents and their  guardians to come and collect them.” He added, “As you heard from the inmates, apart from being subjected to inhuman treatment, some of their so-called teachers practised homosexual acts with them. Although the teachers escaped when my men came here after  the inmates revolted, we shall get all of them and they would face the full wrath of the law. “From what I have seen here, the old man, who is the owner of this place and who is over 78 years old, does not have  the capacity  and facilities to run this place again.” One of the inmates,  Abubakar Saminu,16, from Yobe State said his parents brought him to the centre because he was always stealing. He said,”My parents brought me here because they believed I  would be cured of my stealing problem.  But they would beat us, starve us and subject us to inhuman treatment here.” It was learnt that Maialmajri had already  handed  the running of the centre  to his son, Umar, who reportedly escaped when  police arrived. The Emir of Daura,  Dr . Umar Farouq,  who spoke in Hausa,   said, “We in Daura will not support any act of lawlessness. We want the law to take its  course.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 