Tony Okafor, Awka Two days after a fuel tanker exploded at Upper Iweka and wreaked havoc at Ochanja Market, another laden with petrol fell in the commercial town on Friday, spilling its content into drains and destroying eight houses and no fewer than 22 vehicles. The incident happened on the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway by Bessoy filling station. It caused residents to scamper to safety On Wednesday, no fewer than five persons, including a woman and her baby, were killed in the fire which also destroyed property. Two of the deceased were salesgirls, whose bodies were found about 9am in a shop at Ochanja Market. Angry traders and residents were also said to have stopped government officials from joining in the rescue operation, accusing the state government of alleged negligence. A resident, who witnessed Friday’s fire, Cyril Okeke, regretted that in two days, the commercial city had witnessed two major fire incidents caused by petroleum tankers. He said, “About 3.26am, a truck loaded with petroleum product at the Omoba area along the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, collided with another and ignited fire, burning three caterpillars, 22 vehicles parked in two mechanic workshops. “Police patrol teams led by the Area Commander Onitsha rushed to the scene and cordoned off the area to prevent hoodlums from taking advantage of the situation to loot. The fire service department was also contacted which responded promptly. “No life was lost and the road was cleared to enable free flow of traffic.” He, however, commended the state Fire Service for responding swiftly to the Friday fire. Confirming the incident, spokesperson for the police in the state Haruna Mohammed, said the Commissioner of Police, John Abang, had ordered investigation into the development to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident. Also on Friday, a fuel tanker  fell near the  village home of the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the  February general elections, Mr Peter Obi, at Agulu in the Anaocha Local Government Area of Anambra State. Though no casualty was recorded, there was panic as residents scampered to safety. An eyewitness, Sunday Ikegwuonu, said the tanker laden with fuel fell about 10am. He said, “The incident happen opposite St Stephen’s Anglican Church, near Peter Obi’s family house.” Officials of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps had to cordon off the area and asked motorists to use other routes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    