Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Nigeria Police Force has released the names of successful applicants in its concluded recruitment exercise. A post on the verified Twitter handle of the Nigeria Police Force,@policeng, on Thursday, said the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had vetted the list. This was in violation of the order of Federal High Court, Abuja, which directed the police and the commission to maintain the status quo on the ongoing recruitment of 10,000 constables. Justice Inyang Ekwo gave the order at the hearing of the case on Wednesday. The suit was filed by the commission following the insistence of the police on their right to conduct the recruitment exercise. The Twitter post read, “The IGP has vetted and given approval for the release of the final and authenticated list of successful candidates who participated in the ongoing recruitment exercise into the Nigeria Police Force. Below is the list of successful candidates: https://www.npf.gov.ng/information/index.php.” The statement directed the successful candidates to report at the Police Colleges/Training Schools indicated against their states, adding that training and documentation would commence on Monday. “The training and documentation shall commence on October, 28 and closes on November 1, 2019. Failure to report for training within the stipulated time will mean that the candidate has declined the offer,” it added. Our correspondent had earlier reported the release of the list which was tilted in favour of the IG’s home state of Nasarawa which had 528 slots and Katsina, President Muhammadu Buhari’s state which was awarded 435 slots. Following Saturday PUNCH’s expose on the discrepancies, the police authorities issued a statement last Saturday, claiming that the list had not been vetted by the IG despite the fact that the candidates had already been directed to report for training last Monday. But in the latest list, Nasarawa had 153 candidates while Katsina was given 537 against the 435 slots in the withdrawn list. Bauchi which had 232 in the former list was awarded 220 slots in the vetted list. The candidates were asked to report at the police training schools with two pairs of white shorts and socks, two pairs of white round neck vests and canvass, two pairs of white pillowcases and bedsheets, sports wears, mosquito net, cutlery, broom, cutlass, bucket as well as the original and photocopies of their credentials and eight recent passport photographs.