Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri Operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Imo State Police Command, on Wednesday, arrested the suspected killers of a pastor, Austin Megwa. Until his killing in August, Megwa was a pastor with the Graceland Assembly Church, Okwuemeke, in the Owerri North Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the arrest of the suspects. The police spokesperson said Moses Ijeoma, 39, and Ikenna Etiti, 29, were apprehended in an operation led by the SARS Commander, Godfrey Victor, in the Oguta Local Government Area of the state. Ikeokwu described the suspects as dreaded kidnappers, who were recently released from the Owerri Correctional Centre for taking part in another kidnap operation. He stated, “Moses Ijeoma, 39, aka Ogbuefi, and Ikenna Etiti, 29, both from Mgbala Agwa in the Oguta LGA, have been arrested for the kidnap and murder of Pastor Austin Megwa of the Graceland Assembly Church, Okwuemeke in the Owerri North LGA of Imo State. “On October 16, 2019, these notorious and deadly kidnappers were arrested at Mgbala Agwa in the Oguta LGA of Imo State by the operatives of the Special-Anti Robbery Squad following a tip-off in connection with the kidnap and murder of one Pastor Austin Megwa of the Graceland Assembly Church on August 11, 2019, on Egbu Road, Owerri. “The suspects, who were recently released from the Owerri Correctional Centre following their previous involvement in kidnapping cases in the state, have made useful statements confessing to the crime and stating the roles they played in the kidnap and murder of the victim. “During the operation, which led to their arrest, one of the suspects sustained gunshot injury on his right leg and was later rushed to the Police Hospital, where he was treated and discharged. Investigation is ongoing as efforts have been intensified to arrest the fleeing members of the gang.” The police spokesperson added that the suspects would be prosecuted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 