Peter Dada, Akure Barely 13 days after 36 cows were struck dead by lightning at Ijare community in the Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State, the traditional rulers in the council area on Thursday met with members of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria and representatives of security agencies in the state over the security of the area. The 36 cows were struck dead by lightning on Oke Owa hill in Ijare town last week Sunday and it was gathered that the meeting was to prevent possible clash between the residents of the area and the herdsmen as a result of the incident. Speaking after the meeting, which was held at his palace, in Igbara Oke, the Chairman, Ifedore Local Government Council of Obas, Oba . Francis Agbede, said the meeting was held to ensure continued harmony and peaceful coexistence among the residents of the area and the Fulani herdsmen. According to him, the incident, where the cows were killed, was seen as an act of God and there was nothing anyone could do about it. Agbede stated, “The meeting yielded positive result as every stakeholder discussed the way forward and peaceful coexistence among our people and the Fulani herdsmen.” He also commended the efforts of the Miyetti Allah’s members for sustaining the unity and peace in existence between the herdsmen and the people of the state before and after the incident. READ ALSO: 20-year-old man defiles girl, 10, in Niger He added that the Council of Obas had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the herdsmen that there would be no compensation on the dead cows since it was a natural occurrence. The Chairman of MACABAN in Ifedore Local Government, Alhaji Kayode Ibrahim, who also spoke after the meeting, said they were not requesting for compensation from the town, as the case was of natural occurrence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 