Onyekachukwu Meluwa, Warri An angry mob has set ablaze two suspected armed robbers at the Sublane junction in the Mosogar community in the Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State on Tuesday. The suspects had allegedly robbed a truck driver and his wife of their mobile phones and unspecified amount of money at the Uduaka area of the town. It was learnt that during the operation, the suspects attempted to rape the couple’s 13-year-old daughter. The truck driver was said to have raised the alarm and the suspected armed robbers fled into the bush. The scream of the truck driver attracted the mob as well as the vigilantes in the community, who promptly laid an ambush for them. Minutes later, the suspects were apprehended by the angry mob, who quickly set them ablaze. According to a source, identified simply as Hannah, “The two young men attacked a truck driver and his wife at their home in the Uduaka area of the town in the early hours of this morning (Tuesday). “After taking the couple’s phones and cash, they insisted on sleeping with the couple’s 13-year-old daughter; that was when the truck driver raised the alarm. “The thieves then fled into the bush. Neighbours informed the vigilantes of the attack and they went into the bush searching for the thieves until they caught them around the Sublane area of the town and a mob overpowered them and set the two men ablaze.” This incident brings to two cases of jungle justice this month in the community, with residents wondering how their once peaceful town has become a hotbed for criminal activities. “It is really sad the way we have resorted to taking the laws into our own hands by burning criminals rather than handing them over to law enforcement agents,” a resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, stated. Two weeks ago in Jesse, a nearby town, a boy was set ablaze for burgling an apartment along the Mission Road area of the town. When contacted for comments, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Adeyinka Adeleke, said, “It is true that the two boys were with a locally-made gun. The incident happened on Tuesday.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  