Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The Katsina State Police Command, on Thursday, arraigned a suspected motorcycle thief, Mubarak Lawal, 23, of the Bakin Kasuwa Quarter, Katsina, before a Senior Magistrates’ Court. Lawal was earlier saved from being lynched by an angry mob when he was caught stealing a motorcycle parked in front of the owner’s residence. The suspect allegedly removed the Haojue motorcycle valued at N80,000 from where it was parked and was about to ride it to an unknown destination when he was nabbed. According to the police, the motorcycle, with chassis number LL6XCH12F0048638, belongs to one Tanimu Abdulkarim, an employee of the Sharia Court II, GRA, Katsina. The police alleged that Lawal and his accomplice, one Suleiman Manuwa, now at large, conspired to steal the motorcycle. It was gathered that vigilant residents of the area kept a close tab on the suspicious movement of the two and wasted no time in swooping on them as soon as they removed the motorcycle from where it was parked. However, Manuwa escaped, leaving Lawal behind. It took the timely intervention of the police to prevent him from being lynched by the irate mob. The police prosecutor, ASP Sani Ado, said, “On September 13, 2019, around 3pm, information was received at the Divisional Police Headquarters, Sabongari, Katsina, that Mubarak Lawal, 23, of the Barkin Kasuwa Quarter, Katsina, was arrested and (was) about to be lynched by a mob at the Tundun Matawalle Quarter, Katsina. “On arriving the scene, the police rescued him to the Sabongari Police Station. During investigation, it was discovered that he conspired with one Suleiman, aka Manuwa, now at large, and stole a Haojue motorcycle with chassis number LL6XCH12F0048638, valued N80,000 belonging to one Tanimu Abdulkarim, an employee of the Sharia Court II, GRA, Katsina Registry, who parked the motorcycle in front of his house at the above address.” The police added that further investigation revealed that Lawal and Manuwa had formed a gang that specialised in the theft of motorcycles within the Katsina metropolis. They had both been charged with criminal conspiracy, theft and belonging to a gang of thieves in accordance with sections 97, 287 and 306 of the Penal Code Law. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    