Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri Coalition of United Political Parties on Sunday threatened to declare a total lack of confidence in any panel constituted in violation of the age-long order of seniority to hear the appeal case instituted by Atiku Abubakar against President Muhammadu Buhari. Addressing a news conference in Owerri, Imo State, CUPP spokesperson, Ugochinyere Imo, said the delay in constituting the panel was capable of compromising Atiku’s chances in the appeal. Imo expressed worry that the Supreme Court had yet to constitute the appeal panel over 45 days since the tribunal delivered judgment on the outcome of the presidential election. CUPP called on Nigerians to prevail on the apex court to constitute the appeal panel without any further delay. The opposition spokesperson informed that the apex court had, since 16 days ago, received all the filings on Atiku’s appeal. He said, “The CUPP is again raising concerns over the delay by the Supreme Court to constitute the presidential election appeal panel that will hear the appeal filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the February 23 presidential election. “The supreme Court has, since 16 days ago, fully received all the filings on our appeal and by the provisions of the Constitution, the Supreme Court has, on or before November 11, 2019 , which is 15 days from today, to deliver judgment on the appeal of Atiku challenging Buhari’s victory. “We also wish to inform the Nigerian people that, in furtherance to our belief in the rule of law and the Supreme Court, we have written the Supreme Court through our lawyers to remind them of the need to give us a date for hearing of this all-important appeal of national importance that has the capacity to give our nation a competent leadership that they will be proud of. “We approached the apex court for redress, with strong conviction that the court will right the wrongs, an expression of our deep commitment to the rule of law. “But 45 days after the tribunal delivered its verdict, the Supreme Court is yet to constitute the appeal panel. “This development is very worrisome to the opposition political parties as critical stakeholders in the nation’s democracy. “We insist that we shall declare a total lack of confidence in any panel constituted in violation of the age-long order of seniority. “The apex court must be ready to be on the side of the people in saving the nation and its democracy.”