Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri The Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Imo State Police Command has arrested the suspected killer of Bruno Uchechukwu. Uchechukwu, until his death last week at the Cherubim junction in Owerri, was the Personal Assistant to Jasper Ndubuaku, who is the Chairman of the Committee for the Recovery of Movable Stolen Assets belonging to the state government and the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Security Matters. The state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, said the suspect, Leonard Dennis, was arrested based on credible intelligence. Ladodo, who described the suspect as a notorious criminal, said he belonged to a cult. The CP, who said the suspect was popularly known as Toothpick, added that the SARS Commander, Godfrey Victor, led the operation to the School Road in Owerri Municipal, where the suspect was apprehended. He said, “On September 29 at No. 13 School Road, Umuoronjo, Owerri Municipal, the SARS, led by CSP Victor Godfrey, arrested a notorious criminal, one Leonard Dennis Junior, 22, aka Toothpick, based on a tip-off. “He is a member of the New Black Movement of Africa, also known as Ayes Confraternity. On interrogation, he confessed to being one of those who killed Bruno Uchechukwu, 32, at the Cherubim junction, Owerri, on September 22. “The deceased, who hailed from Atta Ikeduru, but was resident at No. 32 Elekwenwa Street, Owerri, was until his death the Personal Assistant to the State Movable Assets Recovery Committee Chairman, Jasper Ndubuaku. “Upon interrogation, Dennis confessed that the deceased was killed in retaliation for stabbing one of their members, Chima (surname unknown), by a rival cult, Vikings, aka Baggas, at the Free Zone, Owerri. “He stated that futile efforts to get at the main culprit, Esese, made them to take on Bruno Uchechukwu, being a member of Baggas. “According to the suspect, they came in a Taximo mini bus to carry out the killing.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  