Godwin Isenyo The Chairman of Board of Trustees, Arewa Consultative Forum, Mallam Adamu Fika (Wazirin Fika), on Saturday said the botched coup staged by the late Major Gideon Orkar partly led to the formation of the ACF. On April 22, 1990, Orkar staged a violent coup against the government of ex-military dictator Gen. Ibrahim Babangida. However, Orkar and 41 other conspirators were convicted of treason and subsequently executed by a firing squad on July 27, 1990. Fika, a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, said the coup necessitated the formation of ACF in 2000. He said the ACF was a fusion of three Northern groups. According to him, the objective of the ACF was to douse the tensions caused by the Orkar Coup. Fika spoke on Saturday in Kaduna at the inauguration of the organising committee for the ACF’s 20th anniversary celebration. He said the ACF had helped in conflict resolution as well as maintaining political stability in the country. He said, “ACF came into being in 2000 through the amalgamation of three Northern groups, namely the Turaki Committee, the Northern Elders Forum and the Unity and Development Foundation. “The Turaki Committee, chaired by the late President Shehu Shagari, was established in the aftermath of the Gideon Orkar Coup with the objective of dousing the tensions created by the failed coup and helping to stabilise the polity. “With time as the situation in the country became calm, the activities of the Turaki Committee slowed down. The Northern Elders Forum, which was led by the late Alhaji Abdurrahman Okene, was formed to ensure sustainable political stability in the country. “The decline in the activities of these two groups led to the emergence of the Unity and Development Foundation, which was led by the late Alhaji Sule Katagum.” READ ALSO: Dad left the army because he didn’t like violence —Elechi Amadi’s daughter Fika said the formation of the Unity and Development Foundation brought to three the number of groups in the North, a situation that led to competition among them, thus underscoring the need for the region to have “a strong and viable umbrella organisation.” He said, “After consultations among Northern leaders, including political, ethnic and traditional leaders, there was the fusion of the three northern groups into a new umbrella known as the Arewa Consultative Forum.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com