Raphael Ede, Enugu A pastor with a new generation church, the Royal Prince Prophetic Ministry, Chukwuemeka Eze, has been arrested by the Enugu State Police Command for allegedly killing his girlfriend, Miss Ogechukwu Ogbodo. Eze allegedly killed his girlfriend for refusing to buy a tricycle for him. Southern City News gathered that the suspect had been in a relationship with the deceased, who hailed from Amagunze in the Nkanu-East Local Government Area of the state for five years. Ogechukwu, who was residing at the Railway Quarter, was a recharge card sales agent until her death. She was said to have returned home on July 15, 2019, with over N2m, which she intended to deposit in the bank the next day. However, the suspect, after discovering that the deceased had gone home with a huge amount of money, paid her a visit and allegedly killed her. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ebere Amaraizu, confirmed the development and said Eze was arrested by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. Amaraizu stated that the suspect had after killing his girlfriend, ransacked her house and took the money and title documents to the deceased’s landed property. The PPRO said Eze immediately used the money to procure musical instruments and carried out a total renovation of the church. READ ALSO: Same powerful forces that killed mummy now targeting my wife —Prince Harry He added that the suspect had confessed to the crime. Eze, according to the police spokesman, killed his girlfriend because she refused to purchase a tricycle for him though she had been buying tricycles for people in the community on hire purchase. The PPRO added that the suspect was already helping the police in their investigation and would soon be charged. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 