Etim Ekpimah A security guard in the Balogun area of Surulere, Lagos, and two of his friends have been arrested for stealing a generator. It was gathered that the guard, who also sells sachet water, went to the home of his supplier on the pretext of buying bags of the product. An eyewitness, who identified himself simply as Michael, told PUNCH Metro that the guard thought that the woman was not at home after repeatedly knocking on her door without response, he called friends. When the friends got to the compound, they allegedly removed the generator and passed it over to an undeveloped plot of land next to the woman’s house. Michael explained that while the guard was knocking on the door, the woman was inside but pretended not to be around because she felt strange movement in the compound. It was gathered that after removing the generator and the men were about to escape, the woman raised the alarm, which attracted youths in the area, who rushed to the scene and seized the suspected thieves. Michael stated, “This man is a guard in one of the buildings on Balogun Street. He sells sachet water and we all know him. We thought he was a responsible man until now. “He went to the woman he usually buys water from on the pretext of picking some bags of sachet water. But when the woman saw him and two other men, she suspected that something might be in the offing. “The woman hid until they had removed the generator from her flat and passed it over to a plot of land next to the building. The woman raised the alarm, which led to the youth apprehending them.” The suspects were taken to a police station in the area by the youth. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, said he was attending a conference in Enugu and promised to reach out to our correspondent later on the issue, but he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this story. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 