A former General Officer Commanding, Training and Doctrine Command, Minna, Niger State, Maj-Gen Ishola Williams, (retd.), and a Professor of Criminology and Sociology of Law, Etanibi Alemika, have called for an overhaul of Nigeria’s security system to solve the growing insecurity in the country. They spoke at a conference on security organised by Caleb University, Imota, Lagos State, titled, ‘Peoples-centered security sector reform in Nigeria: Architecture, Policy, Doctrine, Organisation, Laws, Budget and Technology.’ The programme was declared open by the vice-chancellor of the institution, Prof Nosa Owens-Ibie, while the chairman on the occasion was Prof Olufemi Onabanjo. Williams, who is also the Executive Director, Pan-African Strategic and Policy Research Group, lamented that since Nigeria gained independence, the nation had continued to operate the same security architecture inherited from the British colonial masters. While calling for a change of attitude, he advised President Muhammadu Buhari to rejig the security architecture by introducing state and community police systems that would be controlled by governors and local government chairmen respectively. He added that the President could save cost by eliminating some tiers in the security architecture and introducing an inter-ministerial approach. Also, in his presentation titled, ‘Insecurity and the imperative of security sector reform in Nigeria,’ Alemika, represented by Dr Ayodele Olabisi of the Department of Sociology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, decried the incessant clashes between security agencies, adding that security challenges had assumed frightening dimensions since the return of civilian rule in 1999. He added, “The law enforcement and security agencies have been overstretched and demonstrated limited capacity in tackling the security challenges plaguing the country. The insecurity problem in the country may be solved by rethinking and restructuring of the country’s security architecture.” In his paper titled, ‘Using biometrics to protect customers of firms against criminals,’ a professor of Accounting, Gabriel Emecheta, lamented that existing legislation is too weak to safeguard bank customers against loss of money to authorised payment scams. There was also a short presentation by an ICT expert, Harmony Emecheta, on techniques used by fraudsters to skim bank accounts, according to a statement on Friday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  