A Wonderous Lineage The Man of God, Reverend Dr. Chris Oyakhilome, is the spiritual father to millions of followers.  Christ Embassy is a huge Christian family spreading messages of love, hope, and encouragement. Like all supportive families, they are close in many ways. There are some 145 branches of Christ Embassy on five continents. The question is often asked, “Who are the members of the family of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome?” The Most Wonderful Parents His father, Elder T.E Oyakhilome, was one of the pioneers of the Assemblies of God Church in Benin City. He was indeed an inspiration to his firstborn son, Pastor Chris. Growing up in a household that espouses a pure Christian message is a true blessing. We understand the pride his late father must have felt watching his firstborn son spread the Gospel message that Jesus Christ is our Savior. His father’s work must have undoubtedly had a great impact on the young Chris Oyakhilome. He went on his first crusade at the youthful age of nine. The commandment to honor your parents is a promise that Chris Oyakhilome has fulfilled. From leading prayer groups at university to delivering sermons to millions, Pastor Chris has honored his father in the spirit of a devout and true Christian. Pastor Chris honored his mother Angelina when she turned 80 with a celebration in Benin. Described as the “quintessential matriarch,” she is revered and adored for her fairness and grace. She is a loving mother, grandmother, and mother-in-law who has imprinted her divine grace on her son. Super Siblings Tim Oyakhilome and Angelina had two other children. Pastor Chris’s brother Ken is known respectfully as Reverend Ken. He has imparted much wisdom and changed many lives as an esteemed Pastor of Christ Embassy’s Houston, Texas branch. He is also a member of Christ Embassy Central Executive Council. Pastor Chris’s sister, Katty Worghiren, is the director of the LoveWorld Music & Arts Ministry (LMAM). She started out as an impressive member of the choir. Her songwriting talent has led to some of the most famous LoveWorld songs. She wrote the anthem “I Believe In Nigeria”. On composing the final and poignant paragraph of the Believers LoveWorld Anthem, Katty adds this message to show the importance of the Christian family: “Believer’s LoveWorld we are one big family You’re my sister you’re my brother There’s no difference in our midst Believers’ LoveWorld” As many of the members of Christ Embassy know, for Pastor Chris Oyakhilome this is a personal family as well as a global family. The immersion of his family in the mission and ministry of the teachings of the Gospel is truly inspiring. As 1 Timothy 5: 1-2 recounts: “Treat younger men as you would your own brother and treat older women as you would your own mother. Show the same respect to younger women that you would to your sister. “ Two Outstanding Daughters The marriage of Pastor Chris produced two wonderful daughters. He and his former wife Anita may have chosen to end their union, nevertheless, they love their beautiful daughters Carissa Sharon and Charlene very much. Currently, they both live in London. Known widely in the gospel singer’s community by her initials CSO, Pastor Chris’s daughter Sharon is a rising gospel star. She was inspired by her father’s teachings and has written the award-winning song “Holy Spirit” as a testament to her deeply felt Christian devotion. She is also an inspiring leader of the Global Youth Leaders Forum and presents many shows on its online channels. Her recent wedding to Phillip Frimpong was one of the most beautiful in the whole of Africa. She captured her love in a touching Instagram post: – ”YES! I am engaged to my very best friend! The most amazing and my absolute favorite person…I am so, so blessed I would say yes over and over I love you.” The ceremony was as beautiful as it was meaningful. Her sister Charlene served as her chief bridesmaid. It is impossible not to be moved by the love emanating from Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s family. More Talented Family Members Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s Nephew Daysman Oyakhilome Woghiren is one of Africa’s emerging leaders. He is using his talents to inspire young people to be touched by the Word of God. As a businessman and the CEO of Carel Films Enterprise, he is able to spread the Good News using modern communication mediums. He is responsible for the production of over 100 Christian music videos and animations, including “I Know Who I Am” by Sinach, “Kinging” by Rozey, “Igbunu” by Micheal Jaffe, “Untouchable” by TB1, amongst many others. At the age of 20, he had already won the American Academy of Animations Award three times. He was also the winner of the prestigious Walt Disney Award and nominee for a Future African Leaders Award FALA). His true genius is to make the genius of others shine bright. In the family of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, the teachings of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ are an integral part of their lives and achievements. We can see that they are steeped in God’s work. In the words of the Man of God, these family members know: “The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God to bring sinners out of sin, into the life of righteousness. His righteousness is revealed in the Gospel.” May his family continue succeeding in their earthly and eternal mission of spreading the Good News of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.