Umar Muhammed, Lafia The Nasarawa State Commissioner of Police, Mr Bola Longe, has announced the arrest of four suspects in connection with the attack on the convoy of the state Deputy Governor, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, in which three policemen lost their lives. He said useful tips supplied by concerned members of the public led to the arrest of the four suspects. He also announced the arrest of 116 other suspected criminals in separate operations across the state, including armed robbers, kidnappers and cultists. Longe made the disclosures in an interview with Northern City News at the Command Headquarters, Lafia, on Thursday. He said, “The four suspects were arrested following a tip-off provided by the members of the public. Policemen attached to the Operation Puff Adder immediately went into action and got them arrested. “The command, in its relentless assault on men of the underworld and their cohorts through the instrumentality of the Operation Puff Adder, arrested about 112 armed robbery suspects, kidnappers and cult members in the state.” Giving a breakdown of the arrests, the police boss said 11 suspects were arrested for armed robbery, sixteen for cultism and four for kidnapping. Some were arrested for theft/shop breaking, while 22 others were apprehended for culpable homicide and other crimes. Longe explained that in the course of investigation, 15 firearms and 24 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from some of the suspects. The commissioner promised that the police would ensure that all the suspects get their day in court as soon as investigations were completed. Speaking to our correspondent in an interview shortly after they were paraded, one Zubairu Salihu admitted to committing the offence for which he was arrested while pleading for forgiveness. He promised not to return to a life of crime if given a second chance.  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  