Enyioha  Opara, Minna Men of the Niger State Police Command have apprehended three people suspected to be stealing pants in the Lapai and Kaffin-Koro areas of the state. The suspects, Mohammed Ali, 24; Ephraim Isaiah, 19 and Abubakar Sadiq, 18, were trailed and arrested by the police operatives attached to Lapai and Kiffin-Koro Divisions while trying to escape. It was learnt that Ali and others were in the act for more than two years, removing female pants spread on the clothes lines. Our correspondent on Friday gathered that Ali was contacted by one of his accomplices to steal four female pants for N20, 000. He was reportedly about to steal the third pants when he was caught by the people who handed him over to the police. Ali stated, “One Madaji Yabajeko from Agaie is my customer who comes to sew clothes from me. He approached me to steal pants for him, that if I steal four pants, he will pay me N20, 000. “I have stolen three pants so far and gave them to him but he has not paid me. He said he would pay me after the pants are complete.” Ali further said he stole the pants when the residents were not at home but on the day he was caught, he did not know the owner of the pants was around. “I steal pants from the windows of the student’s lodge off campus. The last one which they caught me, I did not know the owner was at home. As I put my hand inside the bathroom to take the pant, that was how she shouted and people cane around and I was caught.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Abubakar Muhammad, confirmed the incident, saying the suspects had confessed to the crime. Abubakar further advised females to be cautious of how they spread their underwear as there were perpetrators prowling around to use the underwear “for only-God-knows purposes.” He said they were arrested at different locations of the state, adding that the suspects would be charged upon conclusion of investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 