Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The joint investigative panel set up by the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, at the instance of President Muhammadu Buhari to probe the killing of three policemen and a civilian on August 6 in Ibi, Taraba State, has recommended sanctions for five soldiers  and  two  police officers. The report of the seven-man  said Captain Tijani Balarabe, Sergeant Ibrahim Mohammed and Corporal Bartholomew Obanye, as well as  the Divisional Crime Officer of Ibi Police Division, Assistant Superintendent of Police Aondoona Iorbee, and Inspector Aliyu Dadje  must pass through disciplinary measures over the incident. The report also said an alleged Taraba kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Wadume,  who has been in detention, must be prosecuted for “gunrunning and possible kidnapping”. On August 6, three policemen  attached to the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team and one civilian  were shot dead by soldiers attached to Ibi Unit under  the 93 Battalion, Takum, Taraba State. The policemen had gone to arrest Wadume  in  Ibi town when the soldiers opened fire on them and thereafter freed the kidnap suspect. The DHQ on August 9 set up  the  panel headed by Rear Admiral Ibikunle Olaiya, and  officers drawn from the army, navy, air force, police, the Department of State Services and the Defence Intelligence Agency. A statement on Tuesday by the acting Director of Defence Information, Col Onyema Nwachukwu, confirmed that  the panel had submitted its report and recommended  sanctions for  the suspects. The statement  said, “After a thorough and painstaking investigation into the incident, the board submitted its report to the convening authority observing that there were infractions and poor communication between police officers  and  troops. “It was also observed that there was non-adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure by both parties involved in the incident. It further made some recommendations to the army and police to bring anyone culpable to book in accordance with extant laws. The board recommended that the army and police should further investigate Captain Tijani Balarabe, Sergeant Ibrahim Mohammed, Corporal Bartholomew Obanye, DCO Ibi Police Division, ASP Aondoona Iorbee, and Inspector Aliyu Dadje for complacency and necessary disciplinary measures. “It was also recommended that further investigation be conducted on Hamisu Bala for gunrunning and possible kidnapping in order to prosecute the suspect. Additionally, the board said the military and other security agencies must establish an inter-agency liaison desk to include senior officers for timely resolution of future misdemeanour.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  