Patrick Odey and Onyekachukwu Meluwa Four persons lost their lives on Wednesday as a truck and a tanker crushed them in separate accidents in Akwa Ibom and Delta states. In Akwa Ibom State, three persons were killed and three others were seriously injured in a crash, which occurred around the Urua Ekpa junction in the Itu Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the crash occurred around 8am when a Mack truck with number plate BNY 137 XA skidded off the road, while trying to avoid a tricycle, which was crossing the road. PUNCH Metro gathered that in the ensuing confusion, the truck driver, who was heading for Calabar, Cross River State, rammed into the SG filling station and destroyed three tricycles. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said three persons standing by the station were crushed to death, while three others sustained injuries and were rushed to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. However, the Akwa Ibom Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps put the causality figure at two, a man and a woman, adding that two others sustained injuries. An eyewitness narrated, “I was standing directly opposite the SG filling station when the truck suddenly emerged from the Itam Market area. There was a tricycle, which was trying to cross the road, and while trying to avoid him, the truck rammed into the filling station. “The three people, who were standing by the station, were crushed, while three tricycles were damaged beyond repairs.” The Sector Commander of the FRSC in the state, Mr Sunday Oghenekaro, who confirmed the accident, blamed it on recklessness on the part of the tricycle rider and called for serious orientation of tricycle operators in the state. He said, “From the information I received from my field officer, two people – a man and a woman – died and two were injured. The accident happened due to recklessness of the tricycle rider, who was trying to cross the road. The truck was trying to avoid him before it finally crashed. “This is the issue we have been emphasising that there is a need for tricycle riders to be enlightened and licensed before getting on the road. But because of the love for money, some of them jump onto the road and the result is what we are seeing now.” In Delta State, a passenger on a motorcycle on the New Road by the Owumi junction in Sapele when the motorcycle ran into a fuel tanker. The motorcyclist ran away after his passenger died on the spot. PUNCH Metro gathered that the tanker driver also fled the scene for fear of being mobbed. It was also learnt that the tanker driver was on high speed and the vehicle might have suffered a brake failure and crushed the motorcycle, which was coming in the opposite direction. An eyewitness said, “The man died in the crash that occurred around 6am. While the motorcyclist survived the crash, his passenger got mangled between the tyres of the tanker. “The tanker had gone to supply fuel to a filling station and was manoeuvring into the New Road when the motorcycle ran into it. The accident drew the attention of other motorcyclists, who accused the truck driver of recklessness and were about to descend on him. However, the situation was rescued by an onlooker, who called policemen from the Sapele Area Command to douse the tension. When contacted, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Adeyinka Adeleke, confirmed the accident, noting that the motorcycle ran into the truck. “The deceased was not crushed by the truck, but the motorcycle ran into the truck and the motorcyclist ran away. Motorcyclists should be careful when riding on roads,” Adeyinka said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 