Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe A South Africa returnee, Raji Adio, was on Tuesday sentenced to 38 years’ imprisonment by Justice Chuka Obiozor of the Federal High Court in Lagos for drug trafficking. Adio was convicted of three counts bordering on conspiracy and unlawful possession of 5.10 kilograms of heroin. He was arraigned for by the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency. According to the NDLEA, Adio was arrested on September 3, 2017, during an inward clearance of a South African Airways flight to Lagos, at the E-Arrival Hall of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. Adio was said to have conspired with one Segun and Eddie, who are now at large, while in South Africa, to import the banned drug to Nigeria. It was gathered that the convict concealed the heroin in the false bottom of his two travel bags. The offences were said to be contrary to and punishable under sections 11(d), 11(a) and 14 (b) of the NDLEA Act, 2004. During the trial, the NDLEA counsel, Juliana Iroabuchi, called witnesses and tendered 13 exhibits, including the drugs seized from the convict, his passport, test analysis of the seized drugs and foreign currencies. Delivering his judgement on Tuesday, Justice Obiozor held that the prosecution had proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. READ ALSO: Offa poly lecturer arraigned for employment scam He said, “The prosecution has been able to establish all the allegations as contained in the charge sheet against the convict beyond reasonable doubt. “The defendant is sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment on counts one and three, with an option of fine of N1.5m on each count, and eight years’ imprisonment on count two. The sentences will run concurrently and take effect from the day he has been remanded in prison custody.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com