Bola Bamigbola A group of indigenes of Osun State working in the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso main campus, on Saturday said it had uncovered plans by their colleagues from Oyo State to attack the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Michael Ologunde, and others from Osun. The group called Osun Forum, in a statement signed by its chairman, Mr Oladele Osunmakinde, obtained in Osogbo on Saturday, said workers that are indigenes of Osun were subjected to harassment at the institution’s main campus last week. As an indication to the alleged plan, the statement explained that some workers who are indigenes of Osun, during the commendation service for the former Provost of the College of Health Sciences, Prof Taiwo Adewole, held at LAUTECH, Ogbomoso campus, were harassed. The group urged the Federal Government,  as well as Oyo and Osun state governments to provide adequate security for the workers from Osun working in the main campus, saying they were living in fear of being attacked by their Oyo State counterparts. The statement reads, “Blames by of some individuals directed at Osun State Government is preemptive, since the two governors have yet to meet to put facts in their possession on the table to determine who owes what and who does not owe. “There are records indicating that the two owner states have not been adequately doing their responsibilities as regards salary payments. “The Oyo State Government in the first three months of salary payments from January to March 2019 released N73m for each which amounted to N219m even though it later released N295m for each of the three months from April to June 2019. “When it came to the turn of Osun State, it also released N300m since she commenced payment from July 2019 till date which is well marginally above what Oyo State paid during her first three months of salary payments. “With this record, accusing fingers should not be directed at only one state but rather, the two states should be encouraged to do more for the institution in rebuilding the legacy of the best state university achieved by the past administrations of Oyo and Osun for several years.” The group called on the two owner states to come out clear and give commitments to the joint ownership of the university, adding that the host community should be encouraged to avoid attack induced by agitations. It also demanded that the two owner states should publish their financial commitment to the institution, including the amount expended on the teaching hospital since crisis between the two states started in 2010. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 