OLALEYE ALUKO with agency report The Nigerian Army says it has arrested 10 suspected top Boko Haram members at Bitta in the Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col Aminu Iliyasu, stated this in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. He said a successful sting operation conducted on October 9 by troops of the 26 Task Force Brigade led to the arrest of the suspects. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, some of the suspects were identified to have operated combat vehicles during the Boko Haram attack on Gwoza in 2014. “The arrested suspects include Shettima Umar, Abba Buji, Bukar Modu, Ali Hassan and Alkali Laminu. “Others are Bukur Mustapha, Buba Umaru, Madu Nosobe, Mustapha Hussaine and Umar Jeddum – all from the Bama Local Government Area of Borno State,” the army spokesperson said. Iliyasu said one of the suspects, Modu, was 89th on the Nigerian Army’s list of wanted high-profile Boko Haram leaders. He added that troops of the Nigerian Army had stepped up operations nationwide to checkmate activities of criminals, saying the various operations had yielded results. “Furthermore in a joint operation conducted by the troops of 3 Brigade in conjunction with the personnel of the Nigeria Police Birniwa Command in Jigawa State, five herdsmen complicit in the murder of Haliru Yahaya in his farm were arrested. The arrested suspects are currently in the custody,” Iliyasu said. Meanwhile, about 39 bandits were said to have been killed by army troops at Bakura and Anka areas of the state. The NAN quoted the spokesperson for Operation Hadarin Daji, Capt. Oni Orisan, as saying while 19 of the bandits were killed in an encounter with the army in the bushes of Anka, 20 were killed in Bakura. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 