Hindi Livinus, Yola The Adamawa State Command of the Nigeria Customs Service has arrested 15 persons for alleged economic sabotage. It was learnt that the suspects were arrested following a raid on a warehouse near the Jimeta Ultra Modern Abattoir, where smuggled rice was being re-bagged and sold to unsuspecting members of the public as local rice. Those arrested included the warehouse manager. The Controller of Customs in charge of the Adamawa/Taraba Command, Kamardeen Olumoh, disclosed this to newsmen in Yola on Tuesday. He said he had ordered the immediate closure of the warehouse and warned criminal elements engaged in economic sabotage to steer clear of his area of operation, because the officers and men were ready to ensure that economic saboteurs face justice. Olumoh explained that the command had uncovered various devices deployed by smugglers of foreign rice to evade arrest and that the Customs personnel were improving surveillance to track and neutralise them. The controller said the total estimated duty paid value for the 900 bags of imported parboiled foreign rice found at the warehouse was N14.5m. Olumoh said, “In our continuous effort towards sustaining the fight against smuggling, our men, in conjunction with men of the Federal Operations Unit and the strike force, stumbled on this warehouse where foreign parboiled rice smuggled into the country is being re-bagged as local rice. “Unfortunately, these people are local rice millers. What they are doing here is to repackage foreign rice into local bags so that when Customs personnel accost them, they will say it is local rice. “But our preliminary investigation so far revealed that because the local rice is more expensive than the foreign rice, they are repackaging the foreign parboiled rice into local bags so that they will earn more and by so doing, they are sabotaging the economy.” He noted that the 15 men, who were caught with their weighing and sealing machine at the crime scene, were liable to a jail term of not less than five years each if convicted. The Customs officer also read the riot act to the smugglers and their collaborators following the arrest of another lorry conveying 450 bags of foreign rice carefully concealed in 30 local bags. He said the NCS was prepared to raid major markets to rid the state of smuggled rice, which he noted was killing local production of the commodity. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 