Chima Azubuike, Gombe One Abubakar Abdullahi, 17, of the Idi Quarter, Gombe, has been arrested by the police for fatally stabbing 15-year-old Yusuf Suleiman following a dispute over the sharing formula of  masa (rice cake) gift. A long knife believed to be the murder weapon was recovered from the suspect. This was contained in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Mary Malum, which was obtained by Northern City News in Gombe on Tuesday. Malum said the suspect was arrested by policemen attached to the Gombe Division over a case of culpable homicide. She stated, “Abdullahi stabbed one Yusuf Sulaiman, 15, in his chest region as a result of a disagreement over the sharing formula of food (masa). A long knife was recovered from him as exhibit; the case is under investigation and the suspect will soon be charged for prosecution.” Similarly, the Gona Police Division has arrested one Wada Saleh, 19, of the Hayin Dogo Nasarawu Quarter, Gombe, for defilement. He was alleged to have lured an eight-year-old girl of the same address into the bush and had unlawful carnal knowledge of her. The statement read part, “Saleh repeated the act the following day, but this time in an uncompleted building, before he was arrested. “The minor was rushed to the Specialist Hospital in Gombe for medical examination.” The police  spokesperson said the suspect had confessed to the crime and would be charged as soon as investigation into the case was completed. In another development, the police from the Low-cost Division have arrested one Danjuma Umar, 52, of the Pantami Quarter, Gombe, in connection with a case of abduction and rape of a minor. “The suspect confessed to have lured the victim, a five-year-old girl of the same address, into his room, inserted his fingers in her private parts and sexually abused her before releasing her the following day. Umar will soon be charged,” the PPRO stated. Malum appealed to parents to take extra measures to protect their children and wards from rampaging neighbours. “The command, in furtherance of its mandate and in partnership with communities to curb incidents of crime and criminality, wishes to advise members of the public to take all necessary security measures in safeguarding their children/wards, both at home and in schools,” Malum added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 