Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt A Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Thursday, remanded a 23-year-old man, Friday James, for defiling a three-year-old girl. The incident, it was learnt, happened at the Isemah community, Okrika Local Government Area of the state on December 11, 2018. A witness in the matter, who identified herself only as Ibinabo, told the court that the victim’s mother was the lover of the accused. According to her, the victim’s mother regularly takes the little child to James’ house, where he defiled her by inserting his fingers in her private parts. Ibinabo further told the court that the wife of the accused person, upon hearing about the incident, met and begged her that the matter should not be reported to the police, but angry youths in the community called the police and handed him over. She said, “On the 10th day of December, 2018, this man (James) put his two fingers in the three-year-old girl’s private parts in his house after the girl’s mother dropped her there and left. When we noticed it, we raised an alarm and the community youth held the accused and handed him over to the police. “His wife confirmed what he did and came to me begging not to involve the police, but the youth, who were angry with his act, invited the police and handed him over.” The prosecutor, Chigenu Nwokwe, told the court that the offence was punishable under Section 32(1) and (2) of the Child Rights Act, Cap 50 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2003. The one count read, “That you, Friday James, on the 11th day of December, 2018, at Isemah, Okrika, in the Port Harcourt Magisterial District, did unlawfully and sexually abused a three-year-old girl by putting your fingers in her vagina, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 32 (1) and (2) of the Child Rights Act Cap 50 LFN, 2003.” The Chief Magistrate, Felicita Amanze, remanded the accused and adjourned the matter till October 30, 2019, for the continuation of hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  