Afeez Hanafi and Tunde Ajaja, Accra The immediate past chairperson of the African Commission on Human and Peoples Rights, Ms Pansy Tlakula, has described the electoral laws in Nigeria and other countries across the world as archaic. She said the laws were outdated and served as impediments to free, fair and credible elections. Speaking on Thursday at the ongoing West Africa Media Excellence Conference and Awards 2019 holding in Accra, Ghana, Tlakula, who was the keynote speaker, also accused politicians in African countries of unlawfully obtaining voters’ data from mobile network providers to influence election results. She also pointed out that countries should exercise caution before adopting electronic voting, especially with the challenges posed by cyber security. Tlakula, who spoke on the theme of the programme, ‘Social media, fake news and elections in Africa’, said, “We have to look at the electoral laws. They are archaic, outdated and fall short of the three tenets of elections.” Asked why leaders have not changed the laws to reflect current realities, she said it might not be due to reluctance but the fact that some heads of government were not aware of emerging issues. “Some of the issues we face in our electoral process today were not there when the laws were made; such issues of privacy, big data, selling of data to people or political parties and artificial intelligence and some of them are not even aware that these are issues that demand attention,” she said. Meanwhile, the Public Policy Manager, Africa and MENA Elections, Facebook, Akua Gyekye, said the platform was committed to fighting fake news and was already in partnership with 10 third party independent fact-checkers across the Sub-Saharan Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    