Adelani Adepegba The Police Service Commission has said that it is committed to a quick resolution of human rights abuse cases by the police. This, it said, would rekindle Nigerians’ confidence that the force was not above the law and must be accountable for its actions or inaction. Speaking while receiving a delegation from the British High Commission led by Nigeria Security and Justice Adviser, West Africa Conflict Stability and Security Fund, Sonia Maidar, in Abuja on Thursday, retired Justice of the Supreme Court and PSC Commissioner, Justice Clara Ogunbiyi, noted that resolving very quickly, human rights abuse cases by the police which she said had continued to worsen, would not only rekindle confidence but would also help the nation’s democratic evolution. The PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, in a statement on Friday, said Ogunbiyi pointed out that funding remained the greatest challenge to the commission. She noted that the commission had produced a five-year strategic plan and was desirous of building a database to effectively and efficiently discharge its constitutional responsibilities. The statement read, “Resolving very quickly, human rights abuses of Nigerians by the police which had continued to worsen, Ogunbiyi said, would not only rekindle confidence but would also help the nation’s democratic evolution. “To achieve this, she noted that the commission would need funds to be able to provide the required infrastructure such as a database to effectively monitor the career and actions of these police officers.” Justice Ogunbiyi noted that currently, there was no accurate data on the number of policemen in the country, a situation she said had affected the oversight functions of the commission. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 