Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja Kano, Kaduna, and Kebbi states are the top three beneficiaries of the Federal Government’s National Home-Grown School Feeding Programme, investigations have revealed. Based on analysis of figures obtained from the National Social Investment Office, over 49,579 schools in 29 states have been benefiting from the scheme as at the end of June, this year. The NHGSFP is one of the components of the Social Investment Programme of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Apart from the National Home-Grown School Feeding Programme, the NSIO also coordinates the Federal Government’s Enterprise and Empowerment Programme; N-Power and the National Cash Transfer Programme. The  NGHSF  currently  provides  a  nutritious  balanced  meal  each  school  day  to  public  primary school  pupils  in  classes  one to three across the implementing states  in  the country. As  part  of  the  value  chain,  the programme, according to the government,  has  also  empowered  food vendors  and  provided  sustainable  income  for  small  holder farmers,  thereby  stimulating  growth  and  productivity  in  the  communities  where  the  schools  are located. Menus  are  selected  through  the  support  of  the  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture and  officials  of  the  Federal  Ministry of  Health. A breakdown of the figures showed that Kano State has the highest number of benefiting schools with 4,982 schools. This is followed by Kaduna with 3,897 schools while Kebbi State with 3,001 schools followed closely. Other states that have high number of schools that are benefiting from the initiative are Benue with 2,571 schools; Bauchi 2,239 schools; Jigawa 2,190 schools; Katsina 2,712 schools; and Niger with 2,417 schools. In the same vein, Oyo had 2,330 schools benefiting from the programme, Plateau 2,042 schools; Adamawa 1,194 schools; Delta 1,058 schools; Gombe 1,091 schools; Imo 1,234;  Ogun 1,542; and Ondo with 1,136 schools. Also, Osun had 1,300 schools, Sokoto 1,645, Taraba 1,712, Zamfara 1,451 schools, and Nasarawa 1,220 schools. However, Edo State had the lowest number of schools that are benefiting from the school feeding initiative.  The state had just 100 schools in the programme as at the end of June. Other least benefiting states are Borno with 457 schools; Ebonyi 638 schools; Enugu 808 schools; Cross River 940 schools; Anambra 938 schools; and Akwa Ibom  with 985 schools. 9,963,726 pupils benefiting from school feeding The number of pupils currently benefiting from the programme is put at 9,963,726 according to the NSIO. The Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Mrs Maryam Uwais, in an interview with The PUNCH on Monday, said the programme had been able to increase the number of pupil enrolment in the implementing states by about 31 per cent. She put the budget  per  meal  for the programme at  N70  per  pupil, adding that each  food vendor  is  assigned  between  70  and  150 pupils  to  feed. FG spends N697.46m to feed 9.9m pupils daily Based on the N70 budget spent per pupil, this translates to about N697.46m daily. Uwais said, “The  menu  served  in  each  of  the  jurisdictions  is  determined  in  consultation  with  the state  commissioners  for  Agriculture  and  Health. “Cooks  are  selected  by  the  states  based  on  their proximity  to  the  schools,  and  the  trust  that  the  community  reposes  in  them. “They  are  trained, medically  screened  and   compelled  to open bank accounts to  enable  payment  to be made directly  into  their  accounts, through  the NIBSS. “Budget  per  meal  is  N70  per  pupil,  and  each  cook  is  assigned  between  70  and  150 pupils  to  feed. “The programme has recorded huge successes in terms of a sizeable increase in enrolment,  as  well as  in  terms  of  boosting  the  nutrition  of  the  children. “Financial  inclusion  is  also  a  key  beneficiary  of  this programme,  as  all  of  the  cooks  are  compelled  to  open  and  operate  bank  accounts,  as  well  as through  mobile  money  agents.” She said the Central Bank of Nigeria and other stakeholders in the financial sector had been engaged to address the reports of attempts at blackmailing the cooks by persons who claimed they would remove them if they did not bribe them. When asked if the fund recovered from the late Gen. Sani Abacha was part of the amount spent on the school feeding project, she said it was not part of it. Uwais said the Abacha loot was spent on the cash transfer programme. When asked to provide details of the beneficiaries of the cash transfer programme, she said the figures were being updated daily across the states. She said, “It’s (Cash transfer programme figure) increasing day by day, depending on the extent of the state register, how many have been enrolled. “…The FoI Act prohibits the sharing of their identities without their consent.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 