Deji Lambo Residents of the Isheri North Resident Development Association on Thursday, penned a ‘Save Our Soul’ letter to the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, seeking his intervention on the recent flooding that submerged the community. According to the association, the flooding, which had thrown residents into untold hardship, was responsible for the death of one Manny Philipson, who died because vehicles that broke down in the flood reduced his chances of getting to hospital on time. The Chairman of the association, Funmilola Bisiriyu, and the Secretary, Olalekan Akinyemi, while lamenting that Sanwo-Olu had abandoned the residents of the community, commended the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, for sending delegates to assess remedial actions that could be done to ameliorate the hardship plaguing the residents. In the letter, the association, however, appealed to Sanwo-Olu, to demonstrate leadership by visiting the community for on the spot assessment. The letter read in part, “We the Isheri North Residential Scheme are deeply devastated and distressed from the latest bashing we are currently receiving from the perennial annual flooding of our estate. This 2019 version is the worst ever and we have been knocked down, flat on our backs! “A resident, Mr Manny Philipson, died as he could not be evacuated to the hospital on time, as vehicles broke down in the high volume of water. Hundreds of families have been displaced and brutally traumatised. No help or succour from anywhere, we are on our own. “The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, that we share boundaries with, came to Isheri on Tuesday, October 22, 2019, to commiserate with his citizens, giving assurances, that he will respond swiftly to relieve their distress. Keeping his words, the Governor sent a delegation led by the Deputy Governor, the following day, Wednesday, October 23, to see what immediate remedial action that could be taken to relieve the residents. This is political will in action. READ ALSO: Evans seeks plea bargain on alleged kidnap attempt “We in Lagos State are still waiting to catch the attention of our Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. When will he come to our battered community? Of course, he has sent a permanent secretary to come and access the situation! But that is putting the cart before the horse. The residents here feel abandoned and orphaned. We urge our Governor to demonstrate leadership by coming for an on-spot assessment.”