Patrick Odey, Uyo One person was killed on Friday following an attack on the Nkek community by hoodlums suspected to be Fulani herdsmen. It was gathered that the victim, one Lucky Udoakpan, died on the spot during the attack. The council chairman, Mr Uko Idiong, who disclosed this to our correspondent on Sunday in a telephone chat, said Udoakpan was killed on Friday in Ukanafun in the Ukanafun Local Government Area of the state when he went to weed his farm. He said the deceased was on his farm when some herdsmen entered and insisted on feeding their cattle with his crops, which led to a quarrel. In the ensuing scuffle, he said the herders pulled out machetes and inflicted cuts on the farmer, a development that led to his death. “The incident happened at Nkek village, Ward 3, Southern Ukanafun, Ukanafun Local Government Area. “Youths of the village called to inform me of the incident and I quickly went there with the House of Assembly member, Charity Ido, to inspect the scene. “But before I went there, I had to call my Divisional Police Officer, Edet Offiong, who was ahead of me. The police saw the corpse and took it to the compound of one of the chiefs in the village. “So, I told them to wait till I arrive. When I got there, the youth of the village were aggrieved and I had to talk to them to remain calm. “The villages informed me that Udoakpan went to his farm to weed. When he was there, he saw the herdsmen with their cattle. He told them to leave his farm because the cows were destroying his crops. “They said that when they were talking, the herdsmen challenged him and brought out daggers and machetes and cut the man in about three places on his body and the man died. “I directed that the corpse should be deposited in the mortuary until further notice.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, who confirmed the incident, said the command had dispatch officers to investigate and ensure that the incident did not spread. “Our men are right now investigating the incident to ensure that it doesn’t spread,” he stressed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com