Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Academic Staff Union of Universities on Sunday vowed to resist the Federal Government’s plan for Integrated Personnel Payroll System on her members nationwide. The leaders of the union had summoned an emergency National Executive Council meeting of the ASUU where it was agreed that the leadership of the union at the university levels should begin mobilisation of members for an action against the Muhammadu Buhari government. Buhari had reportedly directed that any worker not on the IPPIS would no longer receive salary. The ASUU Chairman, University of Ibadan chapter, Prof. Deji Omole, on Sunday in Ibadan said the union was not against accountability but would resist attempt by the government to violate existing laws and autonomy of the university. According to Omole, ASUU has offered to help the Federal Government to design the appropriate template that will factor in the peculiarities of university lecturers in the IPPIS but the government seems bent on using the World Bank-designed exploitative template. The ASUU boss claimed the government template would enslave intellectuals as it did not make provisions for payment of arrears of promotion, study leave allowance, responsibility allowance, among others. He added that the Federal Government template was designed to phase out university lecturers above 60 years against the new policy where professors retired at 70 years. Omole said, “Forceful imposition of the IPPIS on university workers is a violation of the university autonomy act. It is therefore illegal. “While ASUU is not against accountability on the part of the university administrators, government should not be allowed to destroy public universities in its purported claims of fighting corruption. “Our members should remain focus and committed in our struggles to protect public university education by resisting forceful imposition of IPPIS on university workers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 