Gbenro Adeoye, Ifeanyi Onuba, Adelani Adepegba, Mudiaga Affe, Tunde Ajaja, Afeez Hanafi, Peter Dada, Raphael Ede, Godwin Isenyo, James Abraham, Abiodun Nejo, Hindi Livinus, and Chima Azubuike Many policemen across the country have expressed anger at the refusal of the police authorities to provide them with uniform despite the budgetary allocation for them in the annual budget of the Nigeria Police Force. The policemen of different ranks lamented that the Force that is saddled with the responsibility of taming corruption should not be engaging in questionable acts itself. Sunday PUNCH’s analysis of the police budget showed that in eight years the police had budgeted N9.88bn for uniform and other clothing. The sums budgeted are N2.01bn for 2010; N1.94bn for 2011; N1.36bn for 2013; N710.8m for 2015; N1.99bn for 2016; N752.5m for 2017; N573.22m for 2018; and N543.22m for 2019. These figures were in tandem with the budgets on the website of the Budget Office of the Federation. The estimates for uniform and other clothing for 2012 and 2014 fiscal years were, however, not reflected. Also, the total allocation to police formations and commands in the years under review was N2.47tn. Meanwhile, in the 2020 Appropriation Bill recently submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari to the joint session of the National Assembly, the police already budgeted a fresh N571,921,344 for uniform and other clothing in the coming year. But, despite the budgetary provisions, policemen, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not allowed to speak to the press, revealed that there was little or nothing to show for the police budget on uniform and other accoutrements. They stressed that they had not been receiving uniform from the Force. They pointed out that the only time they ever received uniforms in their careers was when they were training at the Police College. This, according to them, was responsible for the different colours and texture of the uniform in circulation. They noted that the refusal of the force to provide them  uniform and other accoutrements and their “poor salary” were the reasons why many policemen look tattered on duty as they could not use their “meagre salary” to do their work, especially when the provision was made for such. They also said it had made impersonation of the police easy. Responding to enquiries by Sunday PUNCH, an Assistant Superintendent of Police with the Ekiti State Command explained that in his over 20 years in service, he had never received uniform from the force apart from when he was at the police college. He said, “I have been buying my uniform since I left the Police College. We are aware that there is always a budget for uniform but we do not know what becomes of the money earmarked for it. In fact, if you ask any police, they will tell you they are aware, but people don’t get the uniform. So, where does the money go?” “We all understand that the problem with Nigeria is corruption but things are not getting better because those at the upper echelon in the police are depriving us of our entitlements. We are not happy, but as officers, we cannot complain. If you complain, you will be dismissed. We have been gagged. So, for now, there is nothing we can do. Who are we to challenge anything they do?” An Inspector, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, explained that apart from the uniform and a pair of shoes everyone was given, it had become the norm for policemen to buy their uniform. READ ALSO: Human rights abuses by police have worsened — PSC He said, “The police don’t give us uniform; we buy it ourselves. The uniform is of different materials and the price varies. The black uniform costs about N7,000 including sewing. The blue uniform is also around that amount but we buy camouflage for N12,000. “We also buy shoes with our own money. There is a department at the Force Headquarters where the shoes are kept but people end up buying shoes and that is why you see all manner of shoes everywhere. Those who should make these things available to us have turned it to business to augment their salary. Does corruption have a different meaning than what you have in the police force? “In fact, some civilians who have a close relationship with the officers working at the store buy and resell. Since I left the police college with a uniform and a pair of shoes 13 years ago, I never got a uniform, not to talk of shoes.” Asked if he was aware that a lot of money was being budgeted for the uniform yearly, he said, “Yes, but can the authorities claim they give us for free? They know we buy them by ourselves.” Meanwhile, an Assistant Superintendent of Police serving with the Federal Capital Territory Command, Abuja, confirmed the Inspector’s claims, lamenting that for the 17 years he had spent in the Force, he never got a uniform apart from the one he was given at the police college. He said, “Even the one they gave me, I couldn’t wear it because it was sub-standard. If there are any uniforms at all, they distribute them to senior officers and those working in their offices. I’m aware that we are supposed to be given a new uniform, a belt, shoes, beret, lanyard, among others every two years, but even people at the top know that those things don’t get to us. “Imagine, with my level in the Force if I could be complaining like this, imagine the fate of junior officers. This country is not going anywhere, with the untoward practices we have within the Force and that is why there is no discipline anymore. How do I genuinely respect you when I know you enrich yourself with my entitlements?” The story is the same in Kwara State. Among the many policemen who spoke to Sunday PUNCH, a police sergeant with the state command said she bought her uniform for N10,000 and that she usually replace them every two years. She noted that police officers, who are tailors, also collected money for sewing, a service she said they received a monthly salary for. She added, “The only things they distribute free are caps and lanyards and it is once in a while. The cap is N500 while the lanyard is N100. It was once I even got a cap. There is corruption everywhere in this country and it is sad. Can this country ever move forward? “When I was serving at an Area Command, there was a time they distributed uniforms, but it was selective. Out of 12 Inspectors, they gave uniforms to three senior Inspectors and two rank and file men. They distributed socks, caps and lanyards to the rest of us. Yet, we are entitled to full kits.” In Imo State a Deputy Superintendent of Police said, “As a mobile policeman, I sew my uniform with my money. A set costs about N10,000, and even though there are tailors in the police who are supposed to sew them free, they will collect money from you.” Asked if he had ever requested uniform, he said, “Who will make such request when it is already a tradition that we have to buy? Who will you ask to give you in the first place? Is that not also grand corruption in the Force? That is why there is no respect and discipline in the Force anymore; when superior officers pocket what is meant for their junior officers. Respect is reciprocal.” Meanwhile, a Superintendent of Police at the Ogun State Command also said those responsible for supplying the uniforms seem to see the office as a means of enriching themselves. He noted that only senior officers such as the Inspector-General of Police, DIGs, AIGs, CPs and sometimes DCPs and ACPs were provided with uniforms. He said, “It is purely eye-service on the part of those in charge of the uniform. We usually refer to them as quartermaster officers. When I wanted to sew a new uniform recently, an officer that did it for me collected N7,000. So, it has become the norm. I hope we won’t have a monetised Force in the future. “There are specific shoes that policemen and women are supposed to wear respectively. The shoes must have lace. But since we buy them with our money, there is no uniformity in the shoes we wear and no one will punish you for that.” A constable, who was recruited into the Force in 2018, said the uniform and shoes he was given were not his sizes, adding that he had to buy new pairs. He stated, “The uniform was short for my height. I had to buy another one. They didn’t measure us individually. They just selected few people of different heights and stature randomly and used the measurement to sew all the uniforms. If you are lucky to see somebody whose uniform is your size and yours fits them, you can exchange. But that is not how it should be.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: FG budgets N9bn to maintain, purchase generators Saturday PUNCH had in the past reported how some private tailors sold uniforms in shops close to police stations. An example was a kiosk close to Lion Building on Lagos Island. In Enugu State, many policemen who spoke to our correspondents also explained that after the first uniform they were given when they joined the Force, they were never supplied the uniform nor paid the allowance. An Inspector in one of the formations under the Command said, “We are aware that uniforms were provided annually but it is only shared among those at the command headquarters and senior police officers. That is stealing, because that has made policemen laughing stock on the streets, given that not all of them could afford to buy uniform regularly.” A male sergeant in the command also said, “It’s a shame that the police that should be at the forefront of the fight against corruption is the one championing it, and I’m saying that because there is an allocation for uniforms, but some people embezzle it.” In Ondo State, the story is similar. A senior police officer explained that in his 10 years in the Force, he had only received uniforms twice and that the second time was by luck. “If there is a budget for policemen to be given uniforms every year, or let’s even say every two years, and you don’t give them, yet you pocket the money, what moral ground do you have to say another person is corrupt? What authority do you have to prosecute someone for corruption? “That is why we are having a welfare problem in the police and that is how it has always been. There is enormous corruption in the Force.” In Kaduna State, a Deputy Superintendent of Police told our correspondent that each personnel was given yards of uniform and that they would have to sew the materials themselves. But, a female Inspector said, “We sew our uniform. Even this one I’m wearing now, I bought and sew them myself. I feel bad that I don’t get what is due to me, but as you know we can’t talk.” In Plateau State, many policemen who spoke to our correspondent in the state said they could not recall the last time they were given uniform by the police authorities. A sergeant in the Command said, “I’m aware that we are supposed to be given police uniform by the authorities. It is unfortunate that they have not been doing that for years, even though I won’t let it stop me from doing my work.” In Adamawa State, a sergeant noted that the last time he got uniform was 2009 and that since then he had been buying his uniform. He said he had to bear the cost of looking like a professional policeman. Giving a breakdown, he said, “This beret cost N2,000 for a good one; the uniform cost me N6,000 apart from the amount I paid for sewing. This boot sells for N15,000 and I bought it myself. Yet, if you appear shabbily dressed, you would be sanctioned.” Some other policemen in the command regretted that such could be happening in the Force given what the police stand for. But in Gombe State, an Inspector said he got uniform from the Force annually but that he bore the cost of sewing himself. “At the Area Command where we sew them, it usually costs between N1,500 and N2,000. The material comes on a yearly basis with kits – like beret, shoe,” he said. In Lagos State, a police Inspector also said the department in the Force that was supposed to give out the items free sold them to policemen. An Inspector in the command, who appeared furious with the development, said, “Is it not a shame that the police are also pocketing the funds meant to provide uniform for its men? This is a clear case of corruption and it is sad. That is why nothing is moving forward in this country because even the police are corrupt. “How am I supposed to use my money to run the police force. That is why you see dirty policemen everywhere. Haven’t you observed that orderlies of VIPs and senior officers always look good unlike those on the field? Given our kind of work, we should have many uniform, but corruption has eaten deep into the police force and it is a big shame.” In Rivers State, a Chief Superintendent of Police also said he had never received any police uniform since he joined the Force. He added, “What they do is that they will just allocate about 30 uniforms to a command with 30, 000 policemen and that is all. You can guess those that will be allocated the uniforms. “The truth is that we buy uniform, belts, berets, and shoes and that is the truth. We do not get anything for free. I can tell you that they do not spend up to N10m on uniforms annually, the rest, I am sure you know where it goes.” Probe allegations, CACOL tells EFCC, others The Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Mr Debo Adeniran, has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission and the National Assembly to probe the refusal of police authorities to supply their men with uniform despite budgetary allocations. He said, “The EFCC, ICPC and the National Assembly should immediately probe the activities of the top hierarchy of the police in the last eight years. This is an infringement on the rights of the policemen because it is their uniform that is the symbol of authority to exercise their mandate. Certain people must be punished and sent packing for this act of corruption to restore sanity to the Force. “The Ministry of Police Affairs should take it as a duty to probe this and the new Minister of Police Affairs should press for probe in order not to get his hands soiled in these corrupt practices. There are many fraudulent entries in the Nigerian budget and it is unfortunate.” Police utilise budget optimally –Spokesperson In his reaction, the Force Spokesperson, DCP Frank Mba, said the force utilises its budgetary allocations optimally, adding that it issues uniform and other accoutrements to its personnel as provided for in the budget. He said, “The Nigeria Police Force provides uniform and accoutrements to its men proportionate to the money released. READ ALSO: Army arrests 10 Boko Haram commanders in Borno “I’m aware that the Inspector–General of Police (Mohammed Adamu) has given instructions that the uniform that would be issued this year would be by names of the personnel. The name of each police officer and force number would be inscribed on them. We are working very hard to improve the welfare of our men and the provision of uniform is one of the welfare packages.” Also, the Director, Police Service Department, Ministry of Police Affairs, Zubairu Mohammed, said the police, and not the ministry, were responsible for kitting their personnel. However, he said, “Self-accounting status was granted to the police and the Nigerian Army about four years ago. So, they have their department of finance and account, budget and so on. Purchase of uniform is being handled by that department and not the ministry of police affairs.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 