Afeez Hanafi A number of commuters and motorists were trapped in gridlock for hours on Saturday after a 33,000-litre tanker laden with fuel fell on Otedola Bridge, outward Berger, Lagos State, and spilled its content. Although no life was lost in the accident, it resulted in a traffic snarl that extended to other parts of the state, including Ojota, Ikorodu Road and Ogunusi Road, Ojodu-Berger. The tanker which fell around 10am was removed around 3pm by a combined team of the Lagos State Fire Service, the state emergency management agency, Federal Road Safety Corps and the police. However, the backlog of traffic had yet to ease off as of 8pm as many people were stranded for hours. A resident of Yaba, who works in Magboro, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Daniel Adebola, said he met the traffic at Anthony area, Ikorodu Road – about 13 kilometres away. He said, “I was held in the traffic for over five hours. I was on afternoon shift and was supposed to resume at 2pm. I didn’t get to the office until 7pm. A lot of people resorted to trekking. It was a terrible experience.” A motorist, Ibrahim Adedeji, who was returning to his residence in Ojodu-Berger, told Sunday PUNCH that he ran into the gridlock at Maryland bus stop around 1pm and got to Berger at 7.30pm. “I had never witnessed this kind of traffic in my life. It was  hectic driving; I was so tired,” he added. Incidences of fallen tanker on the busy Otedola Bridge have become a perennial occurrence, affecting thousands of motorists and commuters. For instance, another serious scenario happened on September 20, 2019 when a tanker spilled its content at the spot. The traffic resulting from the accident did not ease up until the following day, forcing many people to pass the night on the road. Also on June 28, 2018, a tanker explosion on the bridge claimed nine lives and left many others injured while about 60 vehicles were burnt. People spent several hours on end in traffic as emergency officials battled to remove the wreckage. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 