Etim Ekpimah the Nigeria Union of Teachers, Ikorodu branch, Lagos State, has urged government at all levels to improve teachers’ welfare packages for better performance. The union explained that with the new salary structure, teaching would be seen as a career for nation building. The Ikorodu branch chairman of NUT, Fakolade Oluwaseun, stated this on Sunday, adding that hundreds of teachers had been retired in the Ikorodu division in the past two years and asked government to recruit more teachers into the system. He added that the future of the teaching profession belonged to youths and urged the government to create an enabling environment for them. He said, “We need more teachers in our schools. Also, teachers have subscribed for the Health Insurance Scheme and they are enjoying it. The programme which is the initiative of NUT Ikorodu branch is now being embraced by all. We have also provided over 400 free eye glasses to our teachers.” The state NUT chairman, Oduntan Oluyinka, who was represented by one of his executive members, Yusuf Mukaila, said Lagos State had promised to recruit 15,000 teachers. A former Commissioner for Information in Lagos State, Ayodele Elesho, asked teachers to be resourceful, punctual at work, and maintain confidentiality of information. Etim Ekpima The Nigeria Union of Teachers, Ikorodu branch, Lagos State, has urged government at all levels to improve teachers’ welfare packages for better performance. The union explained that with the new salary structure, teaching would be seen as a career for nation building. The Ikorodu branch chairman of NUT, Fakolade Oluwaseun, stated this on Sunday, adding that hundreds of teachers had been retired in the Ikorodu division in the past two years and asked government to recruit more teachers into the system. He added that the future of the teaching profession belonged to youths and urged the government to create an enabling environment for them. He said, “We need more teachers in our schools. Also, teachers have subscribed for the Health Insurance Scheme and they are enjoying it. The programme which is the initiative of NUT Ikorodu branch is now being embraced by all. We have also provided over 400 free eye glasses to our teachers.” The state NUT chairman, Oduntan Oluyinka, who was represented by one of his executive members, Yusuf Mukaila, said Lagos State had promised to recruit 15,000 teachers. A former Commissioner for Information in Lagos State, Ayodele Elesho, asked teachers to be resourceful, punctual at work, and maintain confidentiality of information. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 