Adelani Adepegba Members of the #BringBackOurGirls movement as well as parents of 112 Chibok schoolgirls in Boko Haram captivity have lamented the failure of the Federal Government to effect the release of the girls over five years after their abduction. Boko Haram insurgents had stormed the Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State,  on April 14, 2014, and forcefully abducted over 200 girls, but 57 of the girls escaped and found their way back home. The government subsequently negotiated with the abductors and freed 107 girls leaving 112 others in captivity for the past 2,000 days. To mark the anniversary, the BBOG paraded over 112 pairs of school sandals tagged with the names of the missing schoolgirls, Leah Sharibu and two aid workers, Alice Ngaddah and Grace Taku at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, on Saturday. Speaking on behalf of other Chibok parents during a sit-out, Mr Kabu Yakubu, whose daughter, Dorcas, was among the kidnapped girls, expressed disappointment and sadness over the inability of the government to secure the release of the pupils. Yakubu explained that his daughter’s absence had taken a toll on the health of his spouse, who he said was suffering from heart-related ailments. He expressed optimism that the girls would return, describing Dorcas as the pillar of his home. Yakubu said, “Many Chibok parents have died on account of the delay in rescuing their daughters. My wife has been having heart problems, I have been taking her to the hospital every week and now, there is no money. So, that is the problem we are facing. “We are not happy, the government of Nigeria promised to rescue our girls, but up till now, this has not been done. Some Chibok parents have lost their lives, some are sick and in hospital. We won’t say the government lied to us, but they should put more efforts to rescue our girls.” READ ALSO: Chibok girls: You lied, Jonathan counters Cameron’s claim The BBOG in a statement said the government had failed in its constitutional responsibility, adding that the FG appeared to be at ease amidst the troubles in the land, adding that it was  “only concerned about protecting a fake reputation that offers its citizens no value.” BBOG Coordinator, Florence Ozor, who read the statement, cited the Wednesday abduction of six students and two teachers of Engravers College in Kaduna State as a pattern of failure of the government to secure lives of citizens. “To highlight this, we note with heartbreaking dismay, the incapacity, apathy and failed leadership displayed by the President and the Federal Government in the wake of the abduction of six students and two staff members of Engravers College in Kaduna on October 3, 2019. “This continues a distressing pattern of failure to secure, preserve and dignify the lives of citizens,” the coalition said. A former Chairman, National Human Rights Commission, Dr. Chidi Odinkalu, knocked the government for not doing enough to protect Nigerian citizens, noting that abductions had been normalized with officials now holding talks with criminals. He condemned the detention and ongoing trial of #RevolutionNow convener, Omoyele Sowore, saying there was nowhere in the world that calls for revolution was criminalized. The activist also criticized Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade for reportedly instigating the detention and prosecution of a journalist, Agba Jalingo, over a Facebook post flaying the governor for allegedly engaging in anticipatory approval and graft. A former Education Minister, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, called on the government to give closure to the Chibok parents by ensuring the return of the abducted schoolgirls, noting that the BBOG would not stop campaigning for their release.