Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Popular social media activist, Segun Awosanya, otherwise known as Segalink, has clashed with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over the failure of the EFCC to go after All Progressives Congress stalwart, Bola Tinubu, despite picture evidence of bullion vans laden with cash at Tinubu’s Bourdillon, Ikoyi home. Trouble started when the EFCC posted a tweet stating that it was empowered by the law to investigate anyone who appears to be living above his means. The EFCC tweeted, “Section 7(1) of the EFCC Establishment Act, 2004 gives us the power to investigate properties of any person if it appears to the commission that the person’s lifestyle and extent of the properties are not justified by his source of income.” The commission sent out the tweet amid criticisms that it was raiding clubs and persecuting youths driving flashy cars. In his response, however, Segalink tweeted, “I’m sure this section only gives you an erection when it concerns Yahoo Boys and opposition politicians. While the miraculous self aggrandisers in bed with those the head of the EFCC worships are immune to investigation. “Daylight bullion van exhibition of Bourdillon is justified right?” The anti-graft agency, however, defended its record, insisting that it had secured convictions of former governors and other politically exposed persons “Not to toe the line of politics as you may wish but the EFCC has successfully investigated, prosecuted and secured over 1, 245 convictions between 2015 and 2019 which included two former governors, several top government functionaries both in the past and present dispensations. Applaud us.” An adamant Segalink, however, posted the picture of bullion vans entering Tinubu’s home on the eve of the 2019 Presidential election. The activist, known as the leader of the #EndSARS movement, said the EFCC should take action on the bullion van incident before it would be respected by Nigerians. He tweeted, “Let me splash some colours on this to make it simpler to comprehend. Your tweet claims that all the EFCC requires hunt down citizens is the display of wealth that can’t be justified. What justified the relocation of CBN to Asiwaju’s house on Bourdillon on the eve of election?” The EFCC, however, asked Segalink to forward a petition to any of its offices on the matter. “Kindly forward your petitions to Info@EFCCNigeria.org or visit any of our zonal offices of head office to submit a copy of you petition,” the EFCC said. The commission has come under intense criticism for failing to take action against the bullion van incident. Incidentally, the anti-graft agency is currently prosecuting the Peoples Democratic Party’s Presidential candidate’s son-in-law for handling $2m ahead of the Presidential election.