Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The  Nigerian Navy has handed over the suspected killer of a female navy commander, Oluwayemisi Ogundana,  in Jaji near Kaduna State, to the police for prosecution. Following the killing of the naval officer, who was the Commandant of the Command Secondary School of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, in September,  the military arrested  50 suspects including Bernard Simon in connection with the killing. The police paraded Simon and other suspected criminals arrested recently before reporters on Wednesday in Kaduna. Simon, 36, who confessed to the crime,   said he killed the commander after sneaking into her home at Jaji Military Cantonment. The state Commissioner of Police, Ali Janga, who paraded Simon claimed that the suspect raped Ogundana to death, a claim which Simon denied. Simon said he killed the officer because she was fond of cheating the workers under her. He said he hit her head with an iron rod. He added that after dismembering her body, he packed them into two Ghana-must-go bags, dropped them in the officer’s SUV and drove off to where he dumped the two bags into a shallow well. Simon said, “I killed Commander Ogundana alone. I sneaked into her house in the evening and hit her on the head with an iron rod. “I killed her because she was cheating us in the school. I am a teacher in the school and she was cheating us. I killed her to set the whole staff of the school free from her. READ ALSO: We know location of kidnapped students, teachers —Police “There are some financial benefits she deprived us of. She denied me N100,000. That is why I killed her to set myself and other staff free from her.” Meanwhile, the police also paraded 50 suspected kidnappers and armed robbers terrorising the state. The   CP said they recovered weapons from the suspects. Janga also said the abductors of the Ahmadu Bello University female students and a lawmaker were among those arrested. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 