Matthew Ochei, Asaba A High Court sitting in Asaba, Delta State, on Tuesday, sentenced a 42-year-old motorcyclist, Nonso Onyeje, to 14 years’ imprisonment for sodomising a nine-year-old boy. The court, presided over by Justice Ngozi Azinge, found Onyeje guilty of one count of unnatural sexual intercourse/sodomy with the victim, a pupil of a private school in Asaba. The judge, who declined the plea for alocutus by the convict’s lawyer, imposed the maximum punishment of 14 years as prescribed by the law on the motorcyclist and described the act as barbaric, despicable and abominable; adding that people like him did not deserve mercy. “People like you should be locked away from the society so that you don’t go around defiling innocent children. This will serve as a deterrent to others as cases of defilement in the society are becoming alarming,” Justice Azinge said. The prosecution counsel, Mrs Uche Akamagwuna, who is the Director, Sexual Offences/Domestic Violence in the state Ministry of Justice, had told the court that the convict, on or about March 23, 2017, at Okwe, within the Asaba Magisterial District, had anal sex with the victim against the order of nature. According to her, the offence is punishable under Section 214(1) of the Criminal Code Law, Cap C21 Volume 1, Laws of Delta State, 2016. Reacting to the judgment, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Mr Peter Mrakpor, stressed that sexual offenders must not go unpunished, adding that the judgment had given credence to the state government’s fight against rape, defilement, sodomy, indecent assault and violence against children and women. He said the state government would continue to protect the rights of vulnerable persons and vowed to bring sexual offenders to justice irrespective of their social standing. Mrakpor advised parents to by alive to their responsibilities and enjoined those whose rights were infringed upon to report to the police. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 