Sola Shittu, Benin The Edo State Police Command, on Tuesday, arrested two officers of the Federal Road Safety Corps for the murder of a passenger in a cab on the Agbor Road, Benin. The officers were identified as Francis Igboh and Samson Alolade. The police said efforts were on to apprehend two other FRSC officers involved in the incident, Joseph Onolade and Sunday Ogi. The deceased, identified as Mr Odion Omafo Samuel, 36, had boarded an Audi 80 car being used as a cab and was travelling in it with the driver when the FRSC personnel flagged down the vehicle on the Owuahe Hill, Agbor Road, Benin on Monday. The police spokesman in the state, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, confirmed the incident. “Our operatives from the homicide section of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, police headquarters, Benin City, are investigating the case. It is a case of murder,” he said. PUNCH Metro gathered that the Head of the Abudu outpost of the FRSC, Mr Ogbemi Olu, was invited and quizzed by investigators at the command headquarters. His invitation was a follow-up to the statements by his subordinates. The Public Relations Officer for the Edo Sector Command, FRSC, Edoma Bajack, declined comments on the incident, saying, “I cannot give you any information on that.” The Sector Commander, FRSC, Anthony Oko, also refused to comment on the incident when contacted. “I cannot comment on what I do not know. The police in Abudu are handling it,” he simply said. The deceased was said to have aided the taxi driver to resist alleged extortion attempts by the FRSC officers. It was gathered that in the midst of the altercation between the officers and Samuel, the driver fled the scene and left his passenger at the mercy of the FRSC men, who allegedly descended on him and chased him into a nearby bush, where he was beaten to death. Sources said the deceased’s body was then abandoned as the FRSC men jumped into their vehicle and sped off. It was gathered that the driver later went to Samuel’s residence in a nearby village, where he had picked him up, to inform his relatives of the incident, but he was accused of kidnapping and handed over to the police in Abudu. Police investigation, however, led to the arrest of the two suspects, who took investigators to the bush, where the decomposing body of the deceased was recovered on Thursday, October 17, 2019. It was gathered that the suspects, in their statements, accused the deceased of snatching their booking tickets. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 