Deji Lambo and Edward Nnachi Tragedy struck in Amasiri in the Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State on Saturday as a bridegroom, Chukwuemeka Onwuka, slumped at the  reception venue and later died in hospital. Onwuka was getting married to one Miss Onyinyechi Amadi Ugbor of the Ihie village in the Amasiri community. The deceased was an ophthalmologist, who hailed from Item in the Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told PUNCH Metro that the bridegroom had first danced with well-wishers and family members at the reception venue. The source stated that after the first dance, the master of ceremonies announced that a missing wristwatch had been found and called on the owner to come for it. The source said, “Nobody came out to collect the wristwatch. So, the second round of dancing was announced and as the bridegroom approached the dance floor, he fell down and started foaming in the mouth. “He was carried outside and was being fanned by people, but there was no sign of recovery. It was at that point that it was suggested that he should be taken to hospital.” It was learnt that Onwuka was later taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctor on duty referred him to the Mater Hospital, Afikpo. PUNCH Metro gathered that the bridegroom died before getting to the hospital. “Yes, he was seen on Thursday very healthy. This incident happened on Saturday at the Amasiri Central School. So, I can tell you that it is either the bridegroom or the bride disappointed someone and the person saw the wedding as an opportunity to avenge,” a close family source said. When contacted, the Divisional Police Officer, Afikpo, Mr Patrick, said such a report had not reached his office. But the Ebonyi State Neighbourhood Security Watch confirmed the incident. Its Chief Security Officer in the area, Mr Godwin Orji, told our correspondents that Onwuka’s death was a shock to the entire community. Similarly, a yet-to-be-identified man collapsed and died while jogging on Sunday morning on the WEMCO Road, in the Ogba area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the man collapsed due to suspected cardiac arrest and efforts by the people around, who rushed to his rescue, proved abortive as he died on the spot. In the footage of the incident made available to our correspondent by an eyewitness, the lifeless body of the man, who wore a Chelsea jersey and a white pair of trainers, was seen lying on the pavement as rain fell on it. An eyewitness, Ayobami Adedeji, told PUNCH Metro that the man started gasping immediately he fell on the pavement, but efforts to get emergency responders to the scene proved abortive. He stated that the man could have been saved if a medical expert had responded to him on time, adding that he died despite the cardiopulmonary resuscitation performed on him. Adedeji said, “I was jogging in the morning along the WEMCO Road, Ogba, around 6.30am, when I suddenly heard people shouting behind me. When I looked back, I saw a man lying on the floor and people started gathering to attend to him. “I knew it was an emergency, so I moved closer and saw the man gasping; the people who rushed to his rescue and I did a cardiopulmonary resuscitation procedure by applying pressure to his chest, because it was obvious that he had suffered cardiac arrest while jogging. The man struggled to regain consciousness, but unfortunately, he didn’t and he died. “I was fortunate to have my phone on me, so I called the emergency lines for over an hour but nobody showed up. I called the 747 and was told that responders were coming, but when we didn’t see them, I called again and the lady, who picked the call, started apologising. I became angry and started shouting at her that the emergency unit at Alausa was not far from the WEMCO Road and it was Sunday morning and there was no traffic anywhere.” When contacted, the General Manager, LASEMA, Dr Oluwafemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said the man suffered suspected cardiac arrest while jogging, adding that his remains had been evacuated to the mortuary. He urged Lagos residents to consult their doctors before embarking on any strenuous exercise to prevent health problems. Oke-Osanyintolu said, “The man suffered suspected cardiac arrest; when we received the call, we contacted the SHEMU to evacuate the corpse. The corpse has been evacuated. We are appealing to everybody who wants to exercise to endeavour to do the basic tests to ascertain their fitness. “They should also talk with their doctors on the type of exercise they can be involved in. We also appeal to Lagosians to use the facilities provided by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take good care of their health.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 