Samson Folarin Police personnel at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, Lagos State, have released the Toyota Vensa they recovered to its rightful owner, Sanni Bashorun. Bashorun told our correspondent that he did not pay anything to get the sport utility vehicle back. The development followed a report by PUNCH Metro on Friday. Our correspondent had reported that Bashorun’s brother, Mustapha, who is based in the United States of America, sent the vehicle to him in April. He was about to sell it with the help of a police inspector when it was allegedly stolen by a man, who pretended to be interested in buying it. Operatives of the SCIID had arrested and detained the 47-year-old Bashorun over his own vehicle. He was released after allegedly paying N40,000 for bail, as his friend, Olagunju, who was detained along with him, allegedly paid N100,000. The vehicle was, however, recovered in August with the help of policemen from the command headquarters, Ikeja. The police at the SCIID, who took the vehicle into custody, allegedly demanded N500,000 from Bashorun as a precondition for releasing it to him. After the father of four could not raise the sum, the man from whom the police recovered the SUV was said to have got a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police to press his claim to the car. The Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the SCIID, Yetunde Alonge, told our correspondent that the suspected receiver produced documents to back his claim. She said Bashorun’s documents and those of the suspected receiver had been forwarded to the Nigeria Customs Service for confirmation of the legitimate owner of the car. After the publication on Friday, the panel beater said he was called to the SCIID and told that the Customs had confirmed that he was the rightful owner of the vehicle. He said, “They called me and the dealer to Panti on Friday and said we could take the vehicle anytime we were ready. “They asked why I wanted to repay their good deeds with evil and I told them I had no such intention and that I was frustrated with the demands for money. “They asked me to identify the person, who collected the bail money from me and I did. They begged me. “I went there with the car dealer through whom the vehicle got to Nigeria in the first place. The dealer returned there in the evening and took it without paying anything. “I really appreciate the support of The PUNCH for publishing my story. I am grateful to The PUNCH for fighting for me.” Our correspondent was told that the buyer had refused to return to the police for fear that he could be prosecuted for receiving a stolen good. PUNCH Metro was told that the principal suspect had not been apprehended. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 