…Unveils app for reporting corruption Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that no country in Africa can boast of a low level of corruption, adding that only a few countries across the world can boast of such. Osinbajo further stated that there was a nexus between corruption and poor development. The Vice President said this in Abuja on Thursday at the public and media launch of FLAG’IT, an application created by the Akin Fadeyi Foundation with support from the MacArthur Foundation for reporting corruption. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Special Adviser to the President on Rule of Law, Office of the Vice President, Fatima Waziri-Azi, said no matter the level of wealth a nation has, its people may never reap the benefits if corruption is not effectively tackled. READ ALSO: Buhari, ex-President Jonathan meet in Aso Rock He said, “The 2019 Global Corruption Barometer on African citizens’ views and experiences of corruption highlights that while most of the people surveyed in 35 countries felt that corruption had increased in their country, a majority equally felt that they as citizens could make a difference in the fight against corruption. “Only a few countries in the world can claim to have low levels of corruption and none of these countries are in Africa. “There is a consensus that corruption and illicit financial flows out of Africa relentlessly delay the attainment of the development goals, worsens practically all Human Development Indices and trap the majority of her people especially the most vulnerable in a trap of misery and poverty. It doesn’t matter how much revenue a country generates or how transformed it is or progressive its plans are.” The Vice President said it is a known fact that the period that Nigeria received the highest oil revenues was the same time that it witnessed the highest level of corruption. Osinbajo said it was the need to ensure equitable distribution of wealth that the Muhammadu Buhari administration decided to make the fight against corruption its cornerstone. While commending the Akin Fadeyi Foundation and the Federal Road Safety Corps for partnering to fight corruption on the nation’s roads through the use of the app, Osinbajo said the Federal Government would continue to encourage technological innovations. In his remarks, the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), said there was a need for Nigerians to join the fight against corruption. In his speech titled, ‘The Fight Against Corruption: A Collective Responsibility’, the PACAC chairman said the political sector was still producing billionaires overnight at the expense of the masses. Sagay said, “Corruption hurts economies, people, and governments; hence, there is the need to involve everybody in the fight against all forms of corruption in our society. “Incidentally, there cannot be a better time to join in the fight against corruption than now when the political economy continues to produce overnight billionaires and reactionary leaders by the day.” Also speaking, the Corps Marshall, FRSC, Mr. Boboye Oyeyemi, said the FLAG’IT app would go a long way in curbing the rate of corruption in the country. Oyeyemi said the FRSC was determined to rid itself of corruption hence its decision to partner with the Akin Fadeyi Foundation. He called on other government agencies to take advantage of the anti-corruption app to make Nigeria a better society.