Enyioha Opara,Minna The Niger State Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service has seized 3,529 bags of smuggled rice into the country, with duty of N62,159,700 paid. The Area Controller in charge of the command, Abba-Kassin Yusuf, stated this in an interview with journalists in Minna on Thursday. He said at the command office in Minna that a diesel tanker with number plate, RBC 05ZS, suspected to be concealing imported foreign rice yet to be examined, was seized. He said, “The command initiated new anti-smuggling strategies which led to remarkable exploits evidenced in the seizures of various items. “We apprehended one DAF truck diesel tanker with number plate, RBC 05ZS, concealing imported rice; a DAF truck diesel tanker with number plate, MNA 893 XV, loaded with 950 bags of imported rice.” “We seized nine bales of used clothes, four Toyota Corolla conveying cumulatively a total of 135 bags of 50kg imported rice. Another 397 50kg imported bags of rice hidden within the forests were also seized.” The controller stated that the seizures were made at different locations within the command’s area of coverage this month. He, however, noted that some Nigerians still remain unrepentant in the illegal business of smuggling “The seizure of the diesel tanker should send a serious signal to these recalcitrant saboteurs of the Nigerian economy that there is no hiding place. We are determined to beat all their concealment patterns with our superior intelligence network,” he added. Yusuf explained that the strategies put in place to free the command of illegal goods, were yielding good result. He said, “We are more determined than ever to make the command uncomfortable for the economic saboteurs, as the command will henceforth beam its searchlights on the trucks plying Niger and Kogi area commands. “We are keen on implementing the federal government policy of encouraging home-grown rice farmers, as it will not only create jobs for our teeming unemployed youths, but will also improve the nation’s economy.” The controller gave assurance that his men would remain committed to ending the scourge of smuggling. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 