Adelani Adepegba, Abuja  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Monday arraigned two British nationals, James Nolan and Adam Quinn (at large), before Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Abuja. They were charged for alleged complicity in the controversial $9.6bn arbitral award to the Process and Industrial Developments Limited by a United Kingdom commercial court. The defendants, both directors of Goidel Resources Limited, a designated non-financial institution, and ICIL Limited, were charged with 16 counts bordering on money laundering. Count one of the charges read, “That you James Richard Nolan and Adam Quinn(at large), sometime in December 2013 in Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, being directors of Goidel Resources Limited, a Designated Non-Financial Institution, aided the said company in failing to comply with the requirement of submitting to the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investments a declaration of the activities as specified under section 5 (1)(a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011, as amended, thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011, as amended and punishable under section 16 (2b) of the same Act.” The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges, while Justice Abang struck out count nine of the charge on the grounds that “a court of law has no jurisdiction to entertain a charge against a non-registered person.” The prosecuting counsel, Bala Sanga asked the court for a trial date and an order to remand the defendants in prison custody. However, the defence counsel, Okwudili Anozie, moved an oral application for the bail of his clients, but Sanga objected to the application. Abang refused the oral application for the bail of the defendants and adjourned till November 20 and 21, 2019, for commencement of trial. The EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, in a statement said the court remanded Nolan in prison custody, pending the consideration of his bail application. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    