Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State chapter of the  outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra on Tuesday alleged that 17 of its members sustained gunshot wounds  when they were attacked by  police and other security officials at Oguzoronwenya Primary School  in Ogbodo village, Ebonyi North Local Government Area, on Sunday. The  Divisional Police Officer  of Kpirikpiri Police Division, CSP John John,   sustained injuries after he was allegedly attacked   with missiles by some members of the separatist group. But IPOB claimed the security officials opened fire on them immediately they arrived in over  50 vehicles, with 17 people sustaining “severe gunshot wounds while over 70 people were abducted and taken to unknown location”. IPOB were said to be having their local government convention when the security officers  stormed the venue. IPOB’s Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, condemned the attack. He said, “We the global family of IPOB find it distasteful that rather than confront the rampaging and murderous Fulani herdsmen, the Nigerian Army and police have continued their incessant and unwarranted attacks against the peaceful family of IPOB in Ebonyi State. “A combined team of the Nigerian Armed Forces invaded the venue  for a peaceful IPOB gathering in Ebonyi LGA at 5pm on  October  27 in more than 50 Hilux vans during an inauguration ceremony and opened fire on defenceless mothers and fathers without warning. “Seventeen  people sustained severe gunshot wounds while over 70 people were abducted and taken to unknown location.” But spokeswoman for the police in the state, DSP Loveth Odah, said they only arrested six members of the group. Odah said, “IPOB members assembled unlawfully on  October 27 at Oguzoronweya Primary School in Ebonyi North LGA by 2.50pm. “On receiving the information, Operation Puff Adder men in  collaboration with other security agencies went to the place. “When they got to the area, they (IPOB) started attacking them with heavy stones. If the Kpirikpiri DPO, Mr John John,  was not fully kitted he would have been killed. “By now you would have heard that a  Chief Superintendent of Police  was killed. READ ALSO: Niger police nab three fraudsters, recover laptops, phones “He (DPO)  has bruises all over his body. As if that was not enough, they (IPOB) started shooting. We have recovered a  gun from them. “Many of them ran away but we were able to arrest about five or six of them. Police did not open fire on them. The only  thing we did was to disperse them using tear gas.” Meanwhile,  the six arrested IPOB members were on Monday arraigned before Abakaliki Magistrates’ Court for unlawful possession of firearms, conspiracy, unlawful society, among others. The suspects were Orogwu Ndubuisi, Odeh Sunday, Nwoba Chika, Orogwu Prescious, Edeh Samuel and Chinwendu Daniel. However,  Chief Magistrate Nnenna Onuoha said the court lacked jurisdiction to try the matter and ordered that the accused be remanded in custody. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com