Deji Lambo The family of Joseph Olayemi, who drove one of the BRT buses involved in a head-on collision on Sunday, has been thrown into mourning after he died as a result of the injuries he sustained in the crash. PUNCH Metro had reported that no fewer than 16 people, including the drivers, escaped death when two BRT buses belonging to Primero Transport Service Limited collided at the Agric bus stop in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State. The buses were identified as No. 432, driven by Olayemi, and No. 336, driven by Wilson Anta. Olayemi was said to be picking up passengers at the bus stop when Anta, who claimed that his bus suffered a brake failure while driving out of Ikorodu, rammed into bus 432, causing the passengers and the drivers to sustain varying degrees of injury in the process. The Chief Security Officer, Primero Transport Service Limited, Cletus Okodolor, who had earlier confirmed the accident, said on Monday that Olayemi died on Sunday, while he was being transferred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. While commiserating with the bereaved family, he stated that the company would take responsibility for his burial and compensate the family. Okodolor said, “One of the busmen, Olayemi, later died. He was the one who parked and was discharging and picking passengers when the accident happened. He died due to internal bleeding while being rushed down to LASUTH. His corpse has been deposited in the mortuary. “Today (Monday), the Managing Director of Primero Transport Service Limited, Fola Tinubu, led the management team to pay a condolence visit to Olayemi’s family and promised to take responsibility for the burial and all necessary compensation will be paid to his wife, because Olayemi left behind three children.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 