Gbenga Adeniji Mrs Sade Adedeji, the aunt of Ayodeji Omiye, who drowned after a downpour collapsed a portion of the Ureje Bridge in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, has bemoaned the demise of the 33-year-old. Speaking exclusively to our correspondent on Thursday, Adedeji said Ayodeji’s death was painful for she raised him from nine months after his father’s demise 18 years ago. She stated that her nephew would be alive if the government had not left the road unattended to. The deceased and two of his friends were on the way to Ekiti State on Monday when a portion of the Ureje Bridge linking Ado Ekiti with the Federal Polytechnic and the Afe Babalola University collapsed to flooding. Sympathisers rescued the victims and took them to hospital but Ayodeji was said to have drowned and his corpse recovered around 8am on Tuesday. Adedeji said, “He was my nephew. He was into buying and selling. He was travelling to Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, in company with two of his friends. He was from Akungba Akoko, Ondo State. He wasn’t married and had no child.’’ On how she heard news of the incident, Adedeji said a friend of his late nephew called his friend (Ayodeji’s) in the US who also called her daughter in the same country to tell her what happened. “That was how I got to know. When the police called, they didn’t call me directly but they called my son. We gathered that two of his two friends survived the incident but he was found dead 8am the next day. They said one of them was injured. But I have not been able to talk to the person,’’ she said. She added, “We learnt that on that day, travellers parked their vehicles and trekked to the other side for the water to subside. Ayodeji’s father died 18 years ago. I raised him from nine months. His mother lives in Spain and she’s unaware of the development for now. “Before the incident, I sent him a new month message on Whatsapp and asked him to send me data. I spoke with him three days before the incident. He said he just called to say hello to me. He came two weeks ago to take his car from my place to fix it. But it was not the car they drove to Ekiti. I don’t know if the car they used belonged to one of his other friends.’’ According to her, the family sent someone to identify the corpse and monitor events through the person who is still in Ekiti. She added, “He would have been 34 by October 25. The government should publicly address the issue instead of abandoning us to our fate. No condolence, nothing. It is devastating. How can a government leave such a road unattended to? If the road is well attended to, the incident would have been averted. It is sad (she burst into tears).’’ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com