Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The debate on the general principles of the 2020 budget estimates presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari continued on Thursday with some senators saying that the implementation of the 2019 budget was poor. They also said the proposed increment in the Value Added Tax from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent could cripple the activities of the small and medium enterprises. The Deputy Senate Minority Leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, said the federal parliament was also guilty of condoning the executive’s flagrant disregard for the 2019 budget implementation. Bwacha said, “The President presents budget every year but we do not take disciplinary measures expected to make the budget effective. “It has become an annual ritual and we will still do it again. The President, by tradition,   would lay the budget and whatever comes out of it is nobody’s business. “I am saying this because since 1999, budget implementation has not reached 70 per cent. This is worrisome. We are discussing the 2020 budget estimates; is it fair to say we have a 2019 budget which has not been implemented?  As we speak now, nothing has been done. “We have the 2019 Appropriation Act and we are discussing the 2020 budget proposal. We refuse to address this aspect of our shortcomings. No nation moves forward without discussing what happened in the past. “This is a worrisome development in our budget system. We do not take budgeting as a serious business. It may be difficult to achieve 100 per cent implementation but we could achieve a significant improvement in our budget implementation.” Bwacha also stressed the need to diversify the economy because the nation was still operating a mono economy. He said the budget estimates before the parliament did not reflect  any deliberate plan to diversify the economy. He said, “The allocation to the agriculture sector does not really portray a nation that is prepared to diversify. We need to walk the talk if we really want to achieve a significant growth in our economy. Senator Christoper Ekpeyong also described the VAT increase as anti- people and urged his colleagues in the red chamber to save the nation’s economy by looking at alternative means of funding the budget. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Diaspora, Senator Ajibola Basiru, said the 2019 budget was not being fully implemented because it was passed and signed into law towards the end of the 8th National Assembly. He said, “People are looking at allocation to key sectors and the revenue to fund the projects. However, when you talk of the N262bn being allocated to works,  I have it on good authority that what is even required to take care of the outstanding there in  2019 is in the excess of N500bn.” Senator Sandy Onor Ojang, a quantity surveyor, argued that the increment in the VAT was not in favour of the 2020  budget. “If we look at the present VAT, other forms of taxation that are not mentioned openly are more than three, if you increase the VAT to 7.5 per cent today for an investor or a contractor who is coming, he will pay educational tax of one per cent, he will pay ITF of one per cent and he will pay NITTF of one per cent. “These taxes are not mentioned. I am not in support of the VAT increase because already the VAT not mentioned is already over 9 per cent and if you now add them to 7.5 per cent, you are having 10.5 per cent as VAT in the country which would be a burden for us.” Senator Betty Apiafi also condemned the poor implementation of the 2019 budget. She said, “I have some misgivings with the budget proposal of 2020. With a debt portfolio of N2tn, debt service of 2.4tn higher than our capital budget of N1.18tn, I submit that we are not going to find funds to implement our capital budget. “I would like us to reflect on 2019 budget where only a paltry sum of N294.6bn has been released for capital project as of September 2019, most worrisome is the fact that as of June 2019, budget expenditure was already in deficit of N1.35tn. This deficit is what is becoming a problem to implementing the capital budget. “It is also important for us to know that in 2019, we spent N2.14 tn and in 2020, we are going to spend N2.45 tn for debt servicing. Debt servicing simply means absorbing the interests. “Our loan portfolio as of today is about N24tn. We have not started paying but just servicing. This is actually becoming more worrisome because if we do not do something drastic, we will keep increasing our debt portfolio and decreasing the debt service. “The President said the revenue performance of 2019 budget was only 58 per cent and that the budget underperformed because both the oil and non oil revenue were below target of 50 per cent as at June 2019. “It is no longer a secret that before 2017, fuel subsidy budget used to be in the national budget and the National Assembly has the opportunity to monitor that cost. “Since 2017, NNPC decided to absorb the fuel subsidy as a balance sheet item in their books and called it under recovery. So NNPC is now importing fuel, paying itself under recovery, what happens to PPPRA? That is the agency that is supposed to regulate petroleum pricing and determine the supply and distribution of petroleum products in Nigeria “NNPC has usurped the powers of the PPRA as well as the powers of the National Assembly.” The Chairman, Senate Committee  on primary health and communicable diseases, Chukwuka Utazi, described the exemption of pharmaceuticals from the proposed VAT increase as a welcome development. He expressed the hope that those saddled with the implementation would adhere strictly to the Federal Government directives. Senator Kola Balogun noted that allocations to infrastructure, education and health were meagre and called on the National Assembly to increase the allocation to the affected sectors. “The 9th Senate should do the needful buy ensuring that those saddled with the budget implementation do their job,”  he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com