Ada Wodu, Calabar The Federal Road Safety Corps is at loggerheads with the National Conference of Directors/Chief Road Traffic Officers of the Federation over who has the power to  issue a rider permit to commercial motorcycle and tricycle operators. The National Conference of Directors/Chief Road Traffic Officers of the Federation, also known as Vehicle Inspection Officers, had resolved to issue the  permit to commercial motorcycle and tricycle riders to regulate their activities in  the 36  states and the Federal Capital Territory. However,  the FRSC  has frowned on the  move, cautioning commercial motorcycle and tricycle riders to stop obtaining the  permit from VIOs, adding that it  was  its duty to issue licences. The National Secretary of National Conference of Directors/Chief Road Traffic Officers of the Federation, Durojaye Olalekan, in a statement  on behalf of the National Chairman,  Paul Bepeh, insisted that the FRSC did not have the power to stop VIOs from performing their constitutional role of regulating transport businesses in states. He said, “It is  important to say that the tripartite arrangement that brought the FRSC into  the production of driving licence in conjunction with the states has not in any way undermined the statutory right of the (36) states and the FCT to control and regulate transport business. “It should also be noted that while the use of tricycle and motorcycle are not particularly allowed for public transport purposes by  the Nigerian Road Traffic Act CAP 548LFN, exigencies and  the reality of present developmental situations in many states have necessitated their usage for human and goods transport. “It is, therefore, expected that their activities should be effectively regulated to lower the identified challenges in  the states and FCT.” But the FRSC Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, said, “All over the world,  a driving  licence is the only document that gives a trained, qualified and certified driver the right to drive on the road. “And Nigeria, having successfully acceded to the six United Nations Conventions, cannot operate in contrast to global best practices in that regard.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   