Residents of Aboru and Iyana-Ipaja in the Alimosho area of Lagos were in distress on Saturday as flood swept away an 11-year-old boy and his rescuer, one Wasiu, into a canal linking Aboru and Iyana-Ipaja. It was gathered that two young boys sent by their parents to buy cooking gas at a gas station unknowingly fell into the drain through which water passed into the canal. “Three young men attempted rescuing the boys and succeeded in rescuing the older one, but one of the rescuers popularly known as Wasiu Stubborn was swept away while trying to rescue the other victim,” an eyewitness told the News Agency of Nigeria. A Community Development Association leader in Oki town, Mr Solomon Agboghoroma, lamented the incident, blaming it on the failure of government to construct a bridge in the area. Agboghoroma, who recounted the ordeals of landlords and residents of the area anytime it rained, said there was the need to expand Aboru Road and build a bridge at Cement bus stop to forestall a recurrence. “This rain started almost four or five days ago but the one of last night was one of the heaviest and it started at about 2:15am. By 3:15am, it came with full force and everywhere was flooded. “At about 7:30 am or 8:00am, we learnt that a member of the Oodua People’s Congress, who was a security guard in one of the gas stations, was carried away by flood while trying to rescue two children who came to buy gas, but fell into the drain. The gas station had yet to open because of the flood as the whole place, including the canal had overflowed its banks. “The children slipped and the two of them fell inside the gutter. The OPC man went and rescued one but in the process of rescuing the second child, he and the boy fell into the canal and that was the end,” Agboghoroma said. He blamed the government for the tragedy, saying several petitions were written to successive governments in the state from the time of former governor Babatunde Fashola to the last administration of Akinwunmi Ambode. “People have been dying in situation like this here and all landlords have tried, including raising almost N4m for dredging of the canal. The government knows what to do when it is ready,” he added. 