Ted Odogwu, Kano The Kano State Police Command has arrested six suspects for the rape and murder of a Kano housewife, Farida Dahiru, and her three-year-old daughter. The spokesman for the command, DSP Abdullahi Kiyawa, confirmed this development in Kano on Tuesday. Farida and her daughter were on Sunday killed and their bodies dumped in a well in the family compound at the Gobirawa Quarter in the Ungogo Local Government Area of the state. According to a source, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, the assailants broke into the victims’ residence and snuffed life out of them. The source quoted the bereaved husband and father, Malam Shu’aib Abdul-mumin, said he returned from a wedding shortly before midnight and noticed that the door of his house was locked from inside. Thinking that his wife locked the door, he decided to knock hard but he became alarmed when there was no response, he then forced the door open only to discover his wife and daughter in a pool of their blood. A family member, Yayaha Lawal, while narrating the incident said, “After several knocks, Abdul-mumin decided to break down the door. As he entered the house, he met his wife in the pool of her own blood. “The man immediately collapsed on realising that his wife had already passed away.” Confirming the incident, Kiyawa said the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, personally led officers to the scene of the incident after receiving the report. He stated, “On Monday, around 12am, we received a sad report that some assailants broke into the house of Malam Shu’aibu Abdul-Mumin at Gobirawa and killed his wife and daughter, but spared an 11-month-old child, who is the youngest in the family of four. “So, the Police Commissioner led a team of detectives to the scene, where six suspects were arrested in connection with the incident.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   