Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Medical Director of the Excel Medical Centre, Dolphin Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos, Dr Ejike Orji, and his wife, Dr Ifeayinwa Orji, were on Monday re-arraigned before a Lagos State High Court in Igbosere for the alleged attempted murder of 17-year-old Somtochukwu Ezi-Ashi. The couple were arraigned on four counts bordering on attempted murder, causing grievous harm and negligent act causing harm, which they pleaded not guilty to. It was gathered that the defendants, on July 26, 2018, at their hospital, allegedly fixed a Plaster of Paris cast too tightly on Ezi-Ashi’s leg, which caused him grievous harm. The couple, who are not orthopaedic specialists, were accused of recklessly administering orthopaedic treatment to the teenager from his upper thigh to his toe and refused to remove the POP when asked to do so. The prosecutor, Babatunde Sunmonu, told the court that the defendants deliberately removed the POP in a manner that put Ezi-Ashi’s life at risk, adding that they unlawfully inflicted a wound on the left leg of the victim when they lacerated his toe with a saw blade and concealed the wound. Sunmonu noted that the offences were contrary to and punishable under sections 230, 245, 251 and 252 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. However, the counsel for the defendants, Olasupo Sashore (SAN), urged the court to allow them to continue with the previous bail granted them by the court. The presiding judge, Justice Adedayo Akintoye, granted the request of the defence and ordered that the previous bail be continued forthwith. The judge also ruled that the defendants must ensure that they appear in court for their trial. Justice Akintoye adjourned the case till November 27 for trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 