Enyioha Opara, Minna THE National Youth Service Corps has said it apprehended about 95 graduates with fake certificates and handed them over to  the police for prosecution. The Director-General of the NYSC, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim,  who  said  this on Wednesday at the 2019 Batch ‘C’ pre-mobilisation workshop in Niger State,  claimed some institutions had been including the names of unqualified people  on their lists for mobilisation. The DG lamented that the development was  threatening the credibility of the NYSC mobilization process, adding that the action had grave implications for the socio-economic development of the country. He said, “It is worrisome to note that some unscrupulous persons still indulge in the sale of degree and HND certificates and statement of results to unqualified persons. It has also been observed that the  names of unqualified persons are included on the Senate/Academic Board approved lists uploaded on the NYSC registration portal by some corps-producing institutions. “It is quite unfortunate that some corps-producing institutions are still in the habit of uploading part-time and overage graduates for mobilisation. This is one of the challenges we are out to tackle headlong. “Acts such as  the presentation of fake academic credentials and attempts to smuggle names of unqualified persons into the mobilisation lists submitted by some corps- producing institutions are condemnable and will continue to face stiff resistance from the scheme.” According to Ibrahim,   the agency will  blacklist and  expose  any   institution that continues to include the  names of unqualified persons on  their lists. He  said 65 out of the 95  graduates arrested were from  Nigerian universities  while 30 others were from other West African universities. He said, “Regarding fraudulent certificates, we have arrested 65 fake graduates  from universities in Nigeria, and from other West African universities, we have arrested about 30. We have handed them over to the police for prosecution.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  