Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Task Force on the Environment and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit has said it is set to auction vehicles seized from traffic offenders. The offenders had earlier been convicted by the court. According to the agency, 31 vehicles impounded for traffic offences and 22 abandoned by their owners for over six months after their arrest will be auctioned. The Chairman of the agency, Olayinka Egbeyemi, who said this in a statement, noted that the owners of the impounded vehicles contravened the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law, 2018, adding that a public notice had been issued for the owners of both the forfeited and abandoned vehicles to identify them at the agency’s car parks in Ikorodu and Bolade in Oshodi. Egbeyemi stated that owners of the forfeited vehicles pleaded guilty before Magistrate Omobola Salawu of the Lagos State Mobile Court at Oshodi for driving against the traffic, adding that each offender was sentenced to 100 days of community service at any public institution. “At the expiration of the one-month verification exercise, the agency shall apply to the court for an order of public auction, where members of the public will have the opportunity to buy any of these vehicles,” he said. Egbeyemi, who added that the agency was awaiting directives from the state government over impounded motorcycles, noted that over 7,350 motorcycles seized for plying restricted routes in the state were in the custody of the agency. The task force chairman reiterated the government’s zero tolerance for the violation of the law, noting that the agency would continue to prosecute traffic offenders until sanity was restored on the roads and law-abiding citizens were allowed to commute without being impeded by some lawless individuals. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 