Tony Okafor, Awka Tragedy struck in Onitsha, Anambra State, on Tuesday when a 20-year-old man from Jigawa State, Jubrin Mohammed, allegedly stabbed his kinsman to death. The deceased, Hamisu Ibrahim, and the suspect, our correspondent gathered, were sugarcane hawkers in Onitsha. Ibrahim was reportedly killed during a fight with Jubrin on the Onitsha-Enugu Expressway. An eyewitness told our correspondent, “The fight followed a disagreement between the duo. Efforts to separate them were unsuccessful as the suspect suddenly drew a knife with which he stabbed the deceased. “Ibrahim was immediately rushed to the hospital but he died on the way.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident to our correspondent. He said the suspect had been arrested while investigation into the incident had commenced. Mohammed stated, “Around 10am, there was a report at the Awada Police Station that one Jubrin Mohammed, 20, from Jigawa State, who is a sugarcane seller, stabbed and killed one Hamisu Ibrahim, 25, also a sugarcane seller from the same state during a fight along the Onitsha-Enugu Expressway, Onitsha. “The scene of crime was visited by police detectives attached to the Awada Division and the suspect was arrested. “The victim was taken to hospital, where he was confirmed dead by a medical doctor, while the relatives of the deceased declined autopsy on religious grounds. READ ALSO: ‘I won’t interfere in Ibadan chieftaincy system’ “Photograph was taken and the corpse was released to the relatives as requested for burial according to Islamic rites.” Mohammed added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, John Abang, had ordered the transfer of the case to the State Criminal Investigation Department for discreet investigation after which the suspect would be charged. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 