Etim Ekpimah, Bola Bamigbola and Abiodun Nejo Residents of Balogun Close, Taoridi Street and Muniru Close in the Surulere area of Lagos State have lost properties worth millions of naira to flood. They said the problem started because the canal, which was supposed to channel the flood water away from the area, was not properly constructed. The Chairman of the Landlords/Tenants’ Association for Balogun Close, Muniru Close and Taoridi Street, Patani Festus, said before now, rain water used to drain away quickly. According to him, with the construction of the narrow canal, whenever it rains, water flows into the streets. Festus stated, “Government officials worked on the canal sometime ago. The work they did there was very shoddy. They did not construct a proper canal, but a narrow channel, which is not deep enough to take the water away from the streets. Whenever there is rainfall, the water usually flows out of the channel and empties itself into the streets. “Sometimes, the impact is so severe that vehicles parked on the streets are covered by the flood. And when this occurs, people will not be able to go to work but remain indoors.” A resident of the area, Akin Balogun, said the canal needed to be properly constructed, adding that the earlier effort was a World Bank sponsored project that was sabotaged by the officials of the state government, who supervised the contract. He alleged that the officials were only interested in what they could get from the contract and not what would benefit the people. He added that the association had written many letters to state government and the local council development area without any response. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Drainage, Mr Joe Igbokwe, said the affected areas had been included in the list of communities that his office would work on in the dry season. In Osun State, goods worth several millions of naira were destroyed at the Akindeko Market, Alekuwodo area, Osogbo, by flood that followed a torrential rainfall that lasted several hours on Tuesday. The rain, which started around 6am and lasted several hours, led to the flooding of many streets in the state capital. Apart from the Akindeko Market that was completely submerged, the flood also washed away bridges and cut off many communities in Osogbo. In areas like Igbona, Testing Ground, Ayekale, Awosuru, Rasco Alli and Alekuwodo, the flood impeded human and vehicular movement for several hours. A pepper seller at the Akindeko Market, who gave her name simply as Mrs Aninola, said traders made efforts to salvage some of their wares, but were unable to bring out the bulk items due to the large volume of water that took over the area. She said, “Something like this has not happened in the past eight years. During Aregbesola’s first term, the market was reconstructed and there had not been flood since then. “Men of the Osun State Fire Service got to the scene early to ensure that no one was trapped in the flood.” When contacted, the Administrative Officer of the state fire service, Fatai Aremu, said though many parts of Osogbo experienced flooding, no life was, however, lost. In Ekiti State, flood took over many communities, on Tuesday, leaving commuters and residents stranded for several hours. Parts of Ado Ekiti, the state capital, were heavily flooded, while Are Ekiti, Iworoko, Aramoko, Agbado and Ogbese were not spared the fury of the flood. In Ado Ekiti, the Ureje Bridge on the Ado-Ikare Road and bridges on the River Elemi on the Ado-Iworoko Road and Ado-Afao Road were submerged, making human and vehicular movement impossible. The rain, which started on Monday and did not subside until around 3pm on Tuesday, also left travellers in and out of the state through the Aramoko-Ado Ekiti Road stranded as the bridge in the Ile-Ona area of the road was also submerged. A low turnout of workers was recorded at the state secretariat complex as many civil servants had to turn back home as flood took over almost all the roads in the capital city. Most pupils could not make it to their schools, while those who managed to get to school had difficult times returning home after school hours. The state Commissioner for the Environment, Gbenga Agbeyo, who described the situation as worrisome, assured the residents that it would be redressed, while appealing for more understanding with the government. Agbeyo stated, “I have been moving round to observe things and the situation is unfortunate. I want to urge our people to be patient and show more understanding with us. Something will be done very soon. “The Federal Ministry of Works and the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency have visited the bridge and the road to the polytechnic, and all I can tell our people is to expect government attention soon.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  