Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Tuesday said there is no way the All Progressives Congress will escape justice at the Supreme Court, given the perceived weight of evidence proving that its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, won the February 29 presidential election. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan cautioned the APC and supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari to desist from their allegations against the PDP and Atiku. He said such allegations can never sway the Supreme Court to alter the course of justice in the matter. He said, “The APC, being discomfited by the weight of evidence against it and President Buhari, has resorted to cooked-up stories, inventions and threats, in a bid to smokescreen its machinations against the Supreme Court; all characteristics of individuals desperate to distract the court. READ ALSO: Operation Positive Identification violates Nigerians’ rights, Reps tell Buhari “The PDP has built a solid case at the Supreme Court. It stands with Nigerians across the country in believing that justice will prevail. On the other hand, the APC, seeing that it has no hope, has been devising all manner of shenanigans to overheat the system so as to create the ground to derail the course of justice. “Nigerians are aware of how chaotic the APC has been since the PDP and Atiku Abubakar succeeded in assembling our indisputable evidence before the Supreme Court, including the clear miscarriage of justice in the judgment of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, which even the tribunal admitted was full of errors.” He added, “Nigerians are also aware how the APC plots to frustrate and irritate the Supreme Court by filing a cross-appeal seeking to direct the apex court on what to do with the critically flawed judgment of the tribunal. “Unfortunately for the APC and the Buhari Presidency, all the flaws in the judgment of the tribunal are bare before Nigerians; they are now before the Supreme Court and the APC cannot escape justice. “The PDP, therefore, refuses to be drawn into a dance in the mud with the unsettled APC.”