Peter Dada, Akure Judicial activities at the Federal High Court, Akure, the Ondo State capital were at low ebb on Wednesday following the abduction of one of the judges of the court, Justice Abdul Dogo. Dogo was reportedly kidnapped on Tuesday by some unknown gunmen at Ibilo town, in Edo State, as he was returning to Akure from Abuja. When our correspondent visited the Akure Federal High Court, on Wednesday, it was observed that there was low official activity in court as the staffers were seeing discussing the matter. A member of Judicial Staff Union of Nigeria, who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said the lawyers who had cases in the court, particularly Justice Dogo’s court were disappointed on hearing the news of the judge’s abduction. READ ALSO: Gunmen kidnap Federal high court judge “It was a sad day today (Wednesday) at the court, no serious activities have taken place today, even lawyers who have cases in court went back sad when they were told about the incident. We are only praying to God for the release of the man (judge) unhurt, ” he said. Meanwhile, a human rights group, under the auspices of the Rescue Nigeria Coalition,  has called on the Federal and State Governments for urgent action to secure the freedom of the victim. In a statement issued by the President of the group, Mr Tope Temokun, the group said the ugly incident was an indication that the whole country was not safe . The statement read in part, “This is a national embarrassment and confrontation. And we are all in danger; no one is safe . The kidnap of the judge is once again a reminder to us all that the country is at war against its self. “It shows that insecurity that is consuming us all now does not know face or tribe or status or religion. It is one challenge that we all need to come together to confront and hold our government to its toes that it is either the government rescue the country now or we all perish .” In a reaction, the police public relations officer for the Ondo State Command, Mr Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident, said the judge was abducted in Edo State but saying the Ondo and Edo Commands have swung to action to rescue the victim. Joseph said, “We are working in tandem with our colleagues in whose jurisdiction this incident happened, to ensure that His Lordship is rescued unhurt and also apprehend the perpetrators.” He appealed to anyone with useful information that could lead to the rescue of the judge, and the arrest of the culprits, not to hesitate to let the police know.” Similarly, the Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu has called on the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Undie Adie to ensure that the victim was released unhurt. This was contained in a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Mr Ojo Oyewamide. The governor tasked the CP to synergize with the Edo State counterpart to rescue the victim. The statement read, “Notwithstanding that the unpleasant incident happened outside the territory of Ondo State, Governor Akeredolu says the kidnap of any Nigerian anywhere must elicit a pan-Nigerian reaction and empathy.