Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of Training and Development, Yakubu Jubrin, who was queried for misconduct, has approached the National Industrial Court seeking an order restraining the Police Service Commission from sacking or demoting him. The plaintiff also sought a declarative order of the court that the commission could not subject him to further disciplinary measures. The DIG in an originating summons filed at the NIC in Abuja, by his lawyer, Alex Izinyon (SAN), and obtained by our correspondent on Monday, further prayed for an order that the defendant was not vested with the power to determine whether the orders of the IG were lawful or unlawful. The commission had last month queried the DIG for masterminding the disagreement between the PSC and the police over the recruitment of 10,000 constables. Following the insistence of the police on their rights to carry out the recruitment exercise, the commission queried Jubrin for releasing the names of successful candidates without its permission. The PSC also accused the DIG of making disparaging remarks against the commission’s Chairman, Musiliu Smith and a member of the board in charge of recruitment, Austin Braimoh. However, Jubrin, who clocked the mandatory retirement age on October 1, 2019, was prevented from responding to the query by the IG who said the retiring DIG acted on his directives. The summons filed by Jubrin read in part, “The plaintiff seeks for the following reliefs: A declaration of the court that the defendant (PSC) cannot sack, suspend, subject to further disciplinary measures, dismiss, demote and terminate the flavoured employment of the plaintiff who was acting in obedience of the lawful orders of the Inspector-General of Police in accordance with the provisions of Part II, Section 6 of Police Act and section 215 (2), constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, as amended.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 