Godwin Isenyo The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, on Saturday assured Nigerians that the current security challenges occasioned by insurgency, kidnapping, armed robbery and banditry would soon be a thing of the past. This was just as the defence chief tasked the Nigerian Army to continue to uphold the virtues of selfless service and professionalism to meet current security challenges. Olonisakin spoke as the reviewing officer and special guest at the passing out parade of 78th Regular Recruit Intake of the Depot Nigerian Army Depot, Zaria, Kaduna State. He noted that with the calibre of training given to the Nigerian Army and their exploits in warfront, insurgency and other related crimes would soon end. He said the armed forces would not rest on their laurels until the security challenges bedevilling the country came to an end. The defence chief said, “As you all know, Nigeria is currently facing numerous security challenges occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and other criminal elements. “I wish to state that these security challenges will soon come to an end as we will not rest on our laurels until the country is safe for all of us. “The Nigerian Army has given you much and the country is expecting much from you, I urge you to remain focused and dedicated to duty at all times. “This realistic and result-oriented training that is being imparted to young recruits here has been yielding positive results. “This is evident by the robust fighting spirit displayed by our soldiers in various theatres of operations. “The excellent display of drills and military skills exhibited on this parade ground today shows you have acquired the basic training that is required of you to be good soldiers.” He also reminded the recruits of the oath of allegiance they took, noting that by the oath administered on them, they had acquired a status which subjected them to both civil and military laws. He charged the recruits to avoid anything capable of tarnishing the enviable image of the military and the country in general, adding that a lot would be required of them in terms of “loyalty, selfless service, courage, discipline, integrity.” Among the dignitaries who attended the passing out parade which produced 4,832 soldiers were the Senate Committee Chairman on Defence, Ali Ndume, Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, and the representatives of the Chief of Air Staff and Chief of  Naval Staff among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 