The cyberspace was agog on Wednesday with the news of two young ladies, Helen and Susan, accusing singer Davido of impregnating one of them, Susan. Immediately the news hit the waves, Davido quickly denied the claims. The two young ladies have since released a new video posted on an Instagram account, @gistonflameblog, claiming that they were just messing around. In refuting their claim they say, “It was all a joke and you took it personally and started…I’m tired of your people oh.” Helen chips in, “Naija, a ya werey gan.” “We told you guys, it was all a joke. It was a prank. It’s hilarious.” Another voice could be heard in the background saying, “Don’t forget to pay me my money.” See the video: The bogus claim came on the heels of the singer’s delight at welcoming his first child, a male, with long-time girlfriend, Chioma Rowland, on Sunday. Responding to the trending video in which the young lady and her sister say that Davido is responsible for her pregnancy, the singer says the lady’s alleged pregnancy is “audio pregnancy,” meaning the pregnancy is either not real, or that the lady’s claim that he is responsible isn’t true. The accuser claims that Davido had sex with her at a meeting that took place at a popular Lagos hotel. See the video: In the trending video, the older of the two young ladies who identifies herself as Helen, says she had been celebrating her birthday at the hotel when the encounter happened between the singer and her (presumably, younger) sister. Helen claims that the encounter resulted in a pregnancy, which is a few weeks old. Reacting to the video, Davido says, “Ur pregnancy nah audio.” READ ALSO: Osinbajo presides over FEC meeting Also, in a tweet via his verified Twitter handle, Davido describes the claims of the sisters as an attempt at “clout chasing.” He also vowed to send them to jail. He tweeted, “Y’all taking this clout chasing and social media shit too far!! Imma go to the end of the world and use all my power to make sure dem h*** end up in prison!!!!!” Before the birth of his first male child on Sunday, Davido has two female children from two different baby mamas, while he has refused to take responsibility for another lady’s claim that he also fathered her baby girl. See tweet: 