Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has arrested one suspect in connection with a failed robbery attack on a bank in the Olorunshogo area of Mushin. It was gathered that the suspect, Mahmoud Mohammed, and his gang members, on September 24 around 3.50pm, attempted to rob a bank before they were resisted by personnel from the Olosan Police Station, led by the Divisional Police Officer, SP Ayodele Arogbo. PUNCH Metro learnt that the four-man gang, who came on two motorcycles to rob the bank, engaged the policemen in a gun battle but retreated with bullet wounds. It was gathered that the DPO, who was on a surveillance patrol of the area, came across the suspects on two motorcycles. Our correspondent learnt that Mohammed was arrested with four locally-made short guns and 45 pieces of live ammunition. The suspect was said to have confessed that his gang members specialised in robbing banks and their customers in Lagos and other states, adding that they had successfully robbed many victims based on the information received. “Once a customer withdraws money from the bank, we will monitor and confirm if it is a huge withdrawal. We will then trail such a person to their house and rob him or her. We have successfully done that on several occasions. Recently, we robbed a woman in Ijegun through the same method, but we didn’t hurt her,” he was quoted as saying. READ ALSO: 185 suspected kidnappers, robbers arrested in Bauchi The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the arrest, said investigation had commenced into the matter, adding that efforts were being made to arrest other members of the gang. He added that the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, had ordered that the case be transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad for further investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 