The Indian High Commission in Abuja, in collaboration with the Nigeria Postal Service, on Wednesday in Abuja released a commemorative stamp to honour Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary. Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Shri Thakur, said the release of the stamp was a fitting tribute to Gandhi and the long-standing friendship between India and Nigeria. He said the release of the commemorative stamp in honor of Gandhi was a significant moment in India’s history and the India-Nigeria partnership, including in the field of capacity building. Thakur said the day’s event also coincided with the Clean India Day, with a special summit holding in India on Water and Sanitation, where the Nigerian government was also participating. According to Thakur, Gandhi’s connect to Africa was very well known and the importance of his African experience helped in shaping his life and philosophy in places like South Africa and also his brief stay in Mauritius. Thakur read out some of the excerpts and quotes from an article written by India’s Prime Minister, Shri Modi in the New York Times publication of October 2. He quoted Modi, saying “The great leader envisioned a world where every citizen had dignity and prosperity, that he envisioned Indian nationalism as one that was never narrow or exclusive. “One that worked for the service of humanity and the unique ability to become a bridge builder between some of the greatest contradictions in human society. “Gandhi laid emphasis on the welfare of all, championing the cause of the downtrodden and had a concern for environment sustainability.’’ Thakur said that the design of the stamp shows Gandhi and what he believed in, which was self sufficiency and Small and Medium Enterprise, which was why the spinning wheel was captured. He explained that with the spinning wheel which was Gandhi’s significant tool, anyone, including a poor man, could weave for himself, produce cloths, feed himself and free himself from the oppression of colonialism. He appreciated the contribution of Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama to the article on Mahatma Gandhi, which would be published shortly by the High Commission. Thakur urged Nigerians to reflect on the life of Gandhi and emulate him whenever they use the stamp. Also speaking, Mr. Bisi Adegbuyi, Nigeria’s Post Master-General, said that celebrating Gandhi, a man of peace at a time the world was filled with strife, war and violence was not a misplaced priority. Adegbuyi who was represented by Mrs Loretta Nwakama, Chief Operating Officer, NIPOST, said that the commemorative event would make citizens and governments know that peace and co-existence were achievable in the World. “We in the Nigeria Postal Service are delighted to associate with India, leading to the collaboration with the High Commission in Nigeria to issue this commemorative postal stamp as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and the Indian-Nigerian friendship. “The significance of postage stamps is that they are the country of issue’s Ambassador that convey the message of the issuing country to another, particularly in Nigeria and India’s case.” (NAN)