Kamarudeen Ogundele and Gboyega Odogun The Chief Judge of Kogi State, Justice Nadir Ajana, on Monday inaugurated  Chief Edward  Onoja as the state’s new deputy governor. The inauguration was held after Onoja was screened and his nomination approved by the state House of Assembly in Lokoja, the state capital. Justice Ajana was assisted at the inauguration by the state’s Grand Khadi, Abdulkareem Aruwa; and the state governor, Yahaya Bello. Onoja’s screening at the House of Assembly was presided over by the Speaker, Matthew Kolawole. Shortly after the inauguration, Kolawole described the confirmation as reward for loyalty exhibitted by Onoja as the Chief of Staff to the governor. Also state governor described the new deputy governor as a loyal and trusted friend who had always demonstrated excellent ability. “This is neither a time for celebration, nor a time for mourning, but Edward and I regard this as a call to service,” the governor said. The state assembly, had last Friday, sacked Simon Achuba as the deputy governor shortly after receiving the report of the panel set up to investigate allegations of gross misconduct levelled against him. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Bar Association has condemned the impeachment of the Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Simon Achuba, by the state House of Assembly. The umbrella body of lawyers said the impeachment was illegal and unconstitutional because it was against the findings of the probe panel raised by the state Chief Judge which cleared Achuba of wrongdoings. The NBA in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kunle Edun, said it viewed the events with serious concerns and urged all parties to exercise great caution. The statement partly read, “Available information indicates that the Honorable Chief Judge of Kogi State in the exercise of his constitutional powers and pursuant to a resolution of the Kogi State House of Assembly, constituted a seven-man panel, chaired by Mr John Baiyeshea, SAN, to investigate the allegations of misconduct against the Deputy Governor of Kogi State. “The said panel has since submitted its report to the Kogi State House of Assembly, finding the deputy governor not guilty and cleared him of all the allegations made against him.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 