Women have never had the stakes stacked more in their favour in the television dating game, with a plethora of new shows turning gender tropes upside down. With the #MeToo movement forcing programme creators to rethink and feminise many traditional formats, women contestants get to try out a mix of men at home. Analysts at MIPCOM, the world’s biggest entertainment market in the French Riviera resort of Cannes, say laddish shows may have had their day. A woman invites five suitors to live with her in “Five Guys a Week” from Britain’s Channel 4, then gives them their marching orders if they fail to please her. “The guys all live with her at the same time and have to compete” for her favour, said Virginia Mouseler of The Wit industry database. In a clip from the forthcoming series shown in Cannes, divorcee Amy tells her hunky beau that “it pains me to have to eliminate you” while two minutes later she confesses to the camera, “I love it that it’s me that does the picking.” Another show exciting international buyers is the hilarious Israeli reality format, “Queens of Love”. In it, three drag queens take a lovelorn woman under their wing and help her find the right partner. As well as offering inside advice on the inner workings of the male mind, the queens question her suitors and investigate their private lives to find the skeletons in their cupboards. READ ALSO: Man drops lawsuit claiming Apple turned him gay “Undercover Twins” from Britain’s Channel 5 takes an age-old male fantasy and turns it on its head. This time it is twin sisters who decide which of eight men who must charm and impress them in “Big Brother”-style challenges, might be the most suitable. With none of the guys aware that the single woman has an identical twin, the sisters are free to bamboozle them. As well as helping each other make the right choice, Mouseler said, the show asks if the “twins will fall for the same guy?” Ireland’s “Generation Dating” puts its trust in more old-fashioned matchmaking, recruiting a granny to help find the right partner for a millennial. The twist is that the young person must also help the grandmother find love and companionship by helping her negotiate dating apps like Tinder. (AFP)