“Johnson said he agreed with the timetable,” Rinne added. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte tweeted that he had spoken with Johnson by phone and told him “important questions remain about the British proposals” and “there is a lot of work to be done ahead” of a crucial EU summit on October 17-18. The British leader was expected to call the leaders of other EU countries in the wake of his proposals being given short shrift by Brussels after they were submitted Wednesday. As they stand, “the UK proposals do not provide a basis for concluding an agreement,” a European Commission spokeswoman underlined Friday. READ ALSO: Chibok girls: You lied, Jonathan counters Cameron’s claim Talks Friday between a top UK Brexit official, David Frost, and the EU team headed by top negotiator Michel Barnier broke up without progress. Time is running short for the two sides to close the gap. Johnson is determined to take Britain out of the European Union at the end of this month come what may. The EU summit in less than two weeks is to determine whether the country is headed for a Brexit deal, no-deal, or an extension. European diplomats say London needs to offer revised, viable proposals before the end of next week so any haggling and legalistic work is done before the summit. The EU refuses to characterise the talks held so far as negotiations, preferring to resurrect a Brexit withdrawal agreement struck with Johnson’s predecessor Theresa May that has been rejected three times by British MPs. Britain’s current idea for an alternative is for untried technology to remove the need for most but not all border checks, and for EU standards on goods to continue to apply in Northern Ireland to facilitate trade. This border plan is not acceptable for the EU. It sees the potential for rampant smuggling, especially as Johnson intends for the rest of the UK to diverge from EU labour, environmental and tax norms to aim for a regulation-lite economy on Europe’s doorstep. “I made clear that the proposed solutions do not ensure the respect of the Good Friday Agreement, EU unity or the integrity of the single market,” Ritte said. Yet if he bends on them, Johnson risks losing tenuous support in the UK parliament to maybe pass a Brexit deal, reliant on 10 Democratic Unionist MPs from Northern Ireland and hard-core Brexit MPs in his Conservative Party. British media speculation that Johnson might get Hungary to break EU ranks and prevent the required unanimity for an extension was denied by Budapest. Hungary “was not approached to aid in vetoing a possible extension of Brexit,” its foreign ministry said in a statement to AFP. (AFP)