Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Nigerian Bar Association has said the Tuesday’s 59th Independence Day anniversary calls for sober reflection. The umbrella body of all Nigerian lawyers expressed worry over the state of rule of law, independence of the judiciary, respect for human rights, economic downturn and “crass corruption” among the political class and in government institutions. The association had in an earlier statement issued on Sunday condemned the continued detention of the convener of #RevolutionNow and publisher of SaharaReporters, Omoyele Sowore and other Nigerians being held in custody in violation of court orders. The Tuesday’s statement issued on behalf of the President of the NBA, Paul Usoro (SAN), by the association’s National Publicity Secretary, Kunle Edun, congratulated Nigerians “for achieving another great milestone of nationhood” but said it said it had not been “too good as a nation.” READ ALSO: Why Buhari is visiting South Africa —Presidency The statement read in part, “The President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Paul Usoro (SAN) congratulates Nigerians for achieving another great milestone of nationhood. “It has been so far, so good; but not too good as a nation. “However, this anniversary celebration calls for sober reflections by all Nigerians over where we are coming from and where we are going in terms of the state of the rule of law, independence of the judiciary and respect for the fundamental rights of Nigerians. “The NBA has noticed an increasing trend in the refusal of the various governments in Nigeria to adhere to the basic tenets of constitutional democracy. “Unfortunately, the nation has also witnessed sharp economic downturn and crass corruption amongst members of the political class and various departments of government.” While promising “to continue to fulfil its mandate of promoting the rule of law and respect for the fundamental rights of Nigerians,” the NBA urged “all Nigerians to key into this new Nigerian project and abhor arbitrariness, impunity and abuse of power by government authorities.” “These are the inescapable fundamentals for an enduring democracy and prosperity,” it added.