Peter Dada, Akure The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Ondo State chapter, has called on the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, to remove the Chairman of the Governing Council of the polytechnic, Mr. Banji Alabi, to save the institution from total collapse. The union said the state government-owned institution was already on life support, following alleged maladministration of the management. The ASUP chairman of the polytechnic,  Mr Oluwadare Ijawoye, said on Friday that the governing council chairman should be changed for the institution to regain its stability. According to him, the institution needed a seasoned and experienced academic, “who will not only understand the workings of a tertiary institution of learning such as RUGIPO; but will additionally possess the requisite temperament for such exalted position.” Ijawoye said, “The ASUP requests the Government of Ondo State to allow RUGIPO to get out of its current life-support condition, as soon as possible the current Chairman of the Governing Council, Mr. Banji Alabi, should be changed “The government should find out the reason or reasons behind the non-availability within the premises of RUGIPO, the official car meant for the office of the chairman of council, in respect of which a huge sum of N28m has been paid into the personal bank account of the Chairman, Mr. Banji Alabi, several months ago. “The chairman of the governing council, Mr. Banji Alabi also received a sum of N28m into his personal corporate account for the purchase of a state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz (G-Wagon). Documents to that effect were obtained by our investigators and will be tendered to the appropriate authorities. However reacting on behalf of the governing council chairman, the Director of Public Relations and Protocol of the polytechnic, Mr Samuel Ojo, denied the allegations, describing  them as unfounded. Ojo, who reacted in a statement, on Sunday said the activities of the ASUP in the polytechnic had been suspended for a while and “it is an act of illegality for ljawoye to parade himself as chairman of the association.” He said, “The allegation of misappropriation of money as alleged by Mr Ijawoye is not only laughable as it remains a figment of imagination from a drowning man. “Not a dime belonging to the polytechnic has been illegally deposited into the Governing Council Chairman’s account or any of the council members’ account. It would be nice if Mr Ijawoye can back his claims with relevant documents indicating such transactions. He who alleged must have onus of proof.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com