Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has arraigned a former Special Adviser on Niger Delta matters to President Muhammadu Buhari for alleged fraud to the tune of N974m and diversion of $1.9m. The defendant, Brig.Gen Paul Boroh (retd.), was arraigned alongside Hanafi Moriki before Justice O. O. Goodluck of the FCT High Court on nine counts. The EFCC said in a statement by its spokesman, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, “that the defendants on different occasions dishonestly converted the sums of N8,601,571; N106,288,445; N12,078,450; N382,800,000; N456,000,000; N9,000,000 and more, while being public officers.” Boroh, who was the Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, was, in March last year, sacked by Buhari and replaced with Prof. Charles Dokubo. It was reported that the EFCC and other security agencies were investigating him as millions of dollars were traced to him. One of the charges preferred against him reads in part, “That you, Paul Boroh and Hanafi Moriki, between the 1st of December 2016 and 30th July, 2017 at Abuja within the Jurisdiction of this honorable court whilst being public servants entrusted with property to wit funds of the Office of the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, dishonestly converted the sum of One Million, Seven Hundred and Fourteen Thousand United States Dollars to your own use and thereby committed an offense contrary to and punishable under section 315 of the Penal Code Law”. They pleaded not guilty to all the counts brought against them by the EFCC. In view of their plea, counsel for Boroh, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), prayed the court to grant his client bail on liberal terms, stating that his client willingly brought himself to court despite his failing health. Counsel to the second defendant, O.A. Dada, also prayed the court to grant his client bail on liberal terms. However, prosecuting counsel, Aisha A.T. Habib, opposed the bail applications, stating that a counter-affidavit had been filed against the applications and prayed the court to grant the case accelerated hearing. The judge granted Boroh and Moriki N2m and N20m bail respectively. They were also asked to provide two sureties not below the rank of assistant director in the federal public service, who must be resident in Abuja. The defendants are also to deposit their passports with the court registry. Justice Goodluck thereafter adjourned the case till November 26, 27 and December 3 and 4, 2019 for trial.