Tunde Oyekola Kwara State Police Command has said that it has started to make contacts with families of the victims of the illegal rehabilitation centre discovered at Gaa Odota area, Ilorin in Ilorin West Local Government Area of the state on Thursday. About 108 victims comprising children, women and other young adults were rescued from the rehabilitation centre located in the heart of the ancient town. Police spokesman, Ajayi Okasanmi, told Saturday PUNCH on Friday that the command had asked the relations of the victims to come to the state police headquarters to see the victims. Okasanmi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police said, “Since the owner of the rehabilitation centre, Abdulraheem Owotutu, had owned up that he had the contact addresses of those found in the centre, our officers have started to make contacts with their families. “Few of them who live close, especially in the state, have responded to our calls but I cannot give the number of those that have come as of now because I learnt that people are still responding.” The PPRO said investigation into the matter was ongoing, adding, “Our investigation still continues and the suspects will be charged to court as soon as we conclude our investigation.” The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Kayode Egbetokun, said a tip-off led to the raid on the centre, adding it was discovered that some of the victims had lived in the place for over five years. Egbetokun maintained that the command would carry out more surveillance to uncover similar centres in other parts of the state. The police boss also assured that the command would do everything necessary to re-unite other detainees with their families. He added that owner of the centre, Abdulraheem Owotutu, had been cooperating with the police, adding that he was the one who told them that all those found at the centre were brought there by their families for treatment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  