…says action illegal, provocative Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja A group, the Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democratic, has described the decision of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, to inaugurate a three-man steering committee to take over the running and management of the Niger Delta Development Commission as illegal and provocative. The group’s National President, Igbini Emmanuel, made its position known in a statement on Wednesday. Describing the decision as “fraudulent, unlawful and provocative,” Emmanuel said the action was “a deliberate violation and desecration of the 2001 Act of the National Assembly establishing the NDDC and threat to our democracy.” He said, “It must be noted that it was never contemplated and will never be contemplated that a so-called steering committee be constituted to run and manage the affairs of this very critical and important agency of government (NDDC) even when an Interim Management Board is in place and a new statutory board will soon be inaugurated. “Now hiding under the cover of the proposed forensic auditing of the NDDC to act so lawlessly and unconstitutionally should not be allowed and must not stand. “It has been stated and agreed by all of us who are critical stakeholders of the Niger Delta that indeed there is need to urgently sanitise the management of the NDDC and also that of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, both of which have been enmeshed in years of massive looting and misappropriation of funds released to them. “It is also worthy of note that we, the people of the Niger Delta, have also been demanding for forensic auditing of the states of the eegion over similar alleged monumental looting of funds released to the states which include Akwa-Ibom State which he was the immediate past governor. “This being the case, why then did Minister Akpabio not request that President Buhari withholds his appointment and inauguration as minister until the appointment of forensic auditors and completion of similar forensic auditing on the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs?” Emmanuel claimed that the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and the NDDC are two independent agencies of government with distinct responsibilities. He called on the Senate to speedily confirm the nominees of the board of the NDDC and ask that they be inaugurated immediately. Akpabio had on Tuesday inaugurated the committee which he said would be in place to create an enabling environment for the upcoming forensic audit of the NDDC. 