The population of people with disabilities in Nigeria is estimated at 25 million and most of these individuals face challenges that include lack of access to qualitative education and learning materials; discrimination and non-inclusion in the very system that should help them rise above their physical challenges while empowering them with the necessary knowledge and skills. It became imperative that these challenges are tackled to not only aid them in empowering themselves, but also contribute to the economy. The question then is, what provision has been put in place to cater to their educational needs, promote their wellbeing and employability aspirations? LSETF and UNDP, through the LSETF Employability Support Project, answer these questions by including people with disabilities in training aimed at providing vocational skills. The inclusion of physically challenged people in the project has given a measure of independence by enabling them with some relevant skills required by the labour market. In addition to the training on technical vocational skills, masterclasses that develop considerable soft skills are frequently organized for the graduates (of the project) to sharpen their knowledge and provide tips that position them for employability. It does not stop there, however, the LSETF Employability Support Project has developed the Alumni Lounge, a platform created for graduates of the Project to connect with peers and employers from different sectors and learn tips to aid their respective careers. The recently conducted LSETF Grand Graduation ceremony for trainees was attended by dignitaries and guests from all major sectors in the industry, including Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, the state’s Commissioner for Education who represented the Governor of Lagos State. The ceremony had 37 people with disabilities in attendance as graduands.  In total, 4,503 trained and certified youth graduated from different sectors of the project including Construction, Manufacturing, Healthcare, Hospitality, Entertainment, Business Support, and Garment Making. These graduates are now going on to pursue bigger projects and join the workforce. The future of Lagos State’s economy is largely driven by the growth and success of businesses and these businesses depend on their trained workforce to ensure growth. Therefore, the importance of training youth that makes up a large population of the workforce and laudable employability initiatives like the LSETF Employability Support Project, cannot be overemphasized. 