Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, has ordered the immediate arrest and prosecution of all those involved in the setting up of a roadblock that hindered the movement of his convoy on Friday night. Umahi’s convoy was, on Friday night, reportedly blocked along Onicha road in the Onicha Local Government Area of the State while on his way back to Abakaliki, the state capital, from his Uburu, Ohaozara Local Government Area, home. The roadblock was said to have been mounted by a group of people observing a wake keep sequel to a burial in the area. Narrating the incident at the executive council chambers on Saturday while receiving some guests, the Governor decried the development, describing it as a criminal breach of the law. READ ALSO: Court relaxes Jones Abiri bail conditions He alleged that the culprits made away with a gun belonging to a soldier and expressed worry over what they could have done if it had been an ordinary victim that encountered them. Enraged by the development, the Governor has also pronounced a ban on the holding of wake keeps and other such ceremonies beyond 10:00 p.m. across the State. He has also detailed his security aides to ensure that all the culprits were identified and brought for prosecution and possible imprisonment. According to him, “Yesterday night (Friday), I was coming back by 12 midnight “Of course I had to stop over at the college to inspect projects but when we got to Onicha, they blocked the road. Even with the litany of army and the police and everything, they did not even want to open the road. Then I said they should arrest all of them, but most of them ran away. “I think they even took the gun of a soldier. So the Chairman of the Local government, the House of Assembly members and coordinators, they are working very hard and the SSA on Security: they are all there to sort it out. “But I say, all of them will go to prison. So they have to identify them, bring them here and we will prosecute them to show an example.
And I want it to be announced that henceforth, no wake keep should pass 10:00 p.m. “If you must pass 10:00 p.m., take written permission from the Chairman of the Local government, and both the chairman and the person that requested will be held responsible if any problem occurs. “This should be widely circulated and properly announced. “My problem is not that they blocked the Governor but my worry is supposing it was a smaller person that was passing, who had no army and police, they would have robbed the person. That’s what it means. It is against the law to block the governor, and if anyone should be killed in the process, it is in accordance with the law.”