Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has directed officers and men of the force to declare their assets. Adamu spoke on Tuesday in Abuja when members of the board of the Code of Conduct Bureau led by their Chairman, Prof. Mohammed Isah, visited him in his office. He stated, “We are aware that declaration of assets is mandatory for all public officers and not doing so means you are breaking the law. “We want to assure you that we will assign an office to be responsible for that and they will make sure that all our officers and men comply with this directive. This will ensure that we have one channel so that whenever you want to check, it will be easy. “So, officially the office that will be responsible for this is the office of the Commissioner of Police, Research and Planning while the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Research and Planning, will oversee its activities,” Adamu noted. He further reiterated his commitment to assisting the bureau with the personnel to carry out its mandate. Isah said the assistance of the police was required to enforce the code of conduct on all public officers. Praising the IG for declaring his assets, the CCB chairman said the bureau could not execute court orders on its own. Meanwhile, Adamu has said terrorism, kidnappings and other criminal activities are putting pressure on the limited logistics, manpower and other assets of the police. Speaking on Wednesday during a visit to the Force headquarters, Abuja, by the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammed Maigairi, Adamu said the community policing officers would be deployed to complement the conventional policemen in law enforcement functions within their localities by performing low-risk and non-sensitive duties. He said, “The dynamics of crime in the country has over time become increasingly complex due largely to the impact of technology, global terrorism, socio-economic variables and other security situations within  the African continent. All these have combined to put  pressure on the limited logistics, manpower and other operational assets of the Nigeria Police.” The police boss made it clear that the community policing approach would be complemented by the intelligence-led and technology-driven policing strategies in order to present a potent method to the management of internal security threats in the most pro-active and professional manner. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  