Dr Niyi Sunmonu is the coordinator of a breakaway group from the Academics Staff Union of universities known as Congress of University Academics, Obafemi Awolowo University. In this interview with BOLA BAMIGBOLA, Sumonu lists the group’s grievances against ASUU and how CONUA will carry out its mandate What informed the formation of CONUA? There are so many factors responsible for the formation of CONUA. They border on the principles of justice, fairness, probity, equity, accountability, transparency, the right of members to freely express their views and positions, among others. In addition, its leadership was made of men and women of steel, integrity and unimpeachable character, up and until recent years. These sterling qualities of leaders and lofty principles have been jettisoned of late. The current leadership is dictatorial, unfair, unjust, not accountable, has no respect for constitutional provisions, etc. Two instances would suffice, for now, in my view. In OAU, in 2016, complaints were made against a sitting financial secretary that he violated Article 14, section 14b in contesting the election of the branch that year. In clear terms, the section did not give room for anyone on leave to contest for any position. Against all odds, the electoral committee for that year cleared the man concerned for the election. In fact was further absolved of any blames by the fact-finding team that was sent to the branch following the crises that the action generated. The team was led by the current vice president. The man, Dr. Adekilekun Saheed, did not only finish his term but was even appointed a treasurer of the branch unilaterally by the president towards the end of the term of that executive. Immediately, he was appointed the treasurer, over N10m was transferred to the national account with the connivance of a bank manager without the mandatory signature of the elected treasurer. What action did you take on this? Our union is still looking at the possibility of reporting this financial infraction to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for investigation and possible prosecution. The other instance was the unilateral removal of a sitting treasurer by the president, against the letter and spirit of the much-touted constitution, and the unilateral appointment, by the same president, of another member (the same Dr Adekilekun Saheed) to replace the treasurer of the branch. No bye-election was ordered or conducted, again in contradiction of the same much-touted constitution. This is the president that has been accusing others of violating the constitution! The president who claimed to “punish” some members for constitutional violations! Those who want to come to equity should do so with clean hands. It is clear that the union no longer believes in this dictum. This is what some of us cannot take! We are not ready to tolerate injustice, impunity, lawlessness, etc, and it is one of the reasons for our decision. In summary, there were a lot of cases of gross disrespect for the constitution, high-handedness, repression, etc, and the need to depart from these retrogressive ideals and do things differently while reflecting current realities. Did you call the attention of the ASUU leadership to the things your members observed that led to the formation of a splinter group? We fought for many years in our attempts to correct the wrongs. But it is clear that the union has lost its sense of purpose. It is at that point we realised we could no longer continue in this manner. The trustees — the highest body of that union — intervened at a point but the leadership of the union threw away their report. Will your members go back to ASUU if the alleged reasons for your splitting are resolved? I cannot speak for members. For now, in any case, the question is idle. What is CONUA going to do differently from ASUU? We are going to do a lot. As academics, we are thinkers and solvers of problems with different researches we embark on. This would be brought to the fore because no nation can develop beyond the products of the research of its academics. This means that in whatever we do, we would be reflecting current realities while upholding lofty principles of fairness, justice, equity, probity, accountability, transparency, etc. Is your faction angry at regular strikes called by ASUU to press for its rights? Do you think there are other means to get government’s attention apart from industrial action? Let me make it clear that we are not a faction. We are an independent union, seeking registration. We will do everything within our power to avoid that method. Certainly, there are so many solutions to any particular problem. As  researchers, it is our foremost duty, through our researches to come out with different solutions, and pick the best of the lot for effective implementation. For example, what stops any academic union from intervening at the point of budget preparations for appropriate incremental allocation to education? It will be difficult for any government to refuse to allocate when the budget is passed. And any government that toes the path of refusal to allocate or misappropriate can then face the wrath of the law. It will no longer be a fight for a union. How does your group hope to coexist with ASUU? Once we are able to see through our registration, we will operate on principles we hold dear with serious commitment, under the protection of the Nigerian Constitution. There will not be any issue with anyone or any union as we will have to respect the rights of others while at the same time insisting on ours. I have not seen problems with NLC and TUC coexisting. Areas of cooperation can come from time to time, and areas of differences will be respected. Why must your faction pull out of ASUU at a time the minimum wage issue is almost won completely? The matter has not just started. CONUA has been on the ground in OAU for close to two years. Would it be right to say that the FG has hand in your faction to weaken ASUU? The answer is no. We just feel that we can no longer continue in a union, which pretends to be concerned with justice and fairness, but which actually represses its members. Don’t you think your group will create more instability in the academic calendar of universities? How? What do you mean? CONUA emergence will stabilise university education in Nigeria for the next foreseeable future. It represents a credible alternate source of ideas, which is what the nation needs, at this moment. It will be a clear departure from unilateralism to bilateralism. Some people believe that your faction is being driven by greed, lust for power, among others. What is your take on these allegations? For the umpteenth time, we are not a faction. But to your question; I’ll say “he who asserts must prove.” So, let the people who made the allegations substantiate them. To put it directly, they are liars. ASUU believes that your group is a creation of some VCs who are determined to split their union. What do you have to say about that? Simply put, it is baseless. But again, that union may also wish to prove its allegations. Don’t you think you’re running an illegal association since your group has yet to be registered? It is a common practice that you have to organise yourself before you are granted registration. We have already submitted our application for registration, and the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, has openly acknowledged its receipt. The trade union act allows a union to organise itself prior to registration. Therefore, there is nothing illegal about CONUA. How long did you plan your exit from ASUU? The fight to exit from ASUU took us so many years. What should Nigerians, particularly the university stakeholders expect from CONUA? They should expect redefinition and repositioning of unionism, while reflecting current realities. A report by BBC recently exposed how lecturers sexually abuse their students in Nigeria and Ghana, and a Nigerian lecturer implicated has been suspended by University of Lagos and his church, what do you think about that? It is sad watching the video of the incident. How that man in UNILAG behaved is unethical and immoral. As lecturers, we should act in loco parentis to our students. By his own admission, the man is already in his 50s. How would he have felt if somebody of his age tried to do that to a 17-year-old daughter of his? The university should act promptly on the matter and ensure that justice is done. Our union condemns such behaviour unequivocally. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  