Afeez Hanafi with agency report The General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, on Friday said the building collapse on Rufai Street, Oju-Elegba that injured five persons was avoidable. He said two-storey building was marked distress twice by the Lagos State Building Control Agency but the residents turned a deaf ear. LASBCA GM, Mrs Abiola Kosegbe, also confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria. Oke-Osanyintolu said the building was marked in 2015 and few months ago, adding that the owner was requested to visit the agency’s office for structural testing of the property. The building partially collapsed around 9pm on Thursday and trapped five persons. LASEMA officials and other emergency responders were drafted to the scene. The victims were rescued alive and taken to hospitals. The incident added to a chain of building collapse incidents recorded in the state. On March 13, 2019, a three-storey school building collapsed in Ita-Faji, Lagos Island, killing 20 persons. Recently, on October 12, a building collapse in Orisha-Magodo claimed the lives of three children and their mother. On the same day, another distressed building on Rademo Street, Ita Elewa, Ikorodu caved in, leaving many people injured. Oke-Osanyintolu told our correspondent on the telephone that the building had been pulled down to the ground zero. He said, “All the landlords in that area have been directed to carry out the material testing of their structures. It is pertinent to note that the building was marked in 2015 by LASBCA and it has been marked this year too. The owners of the property were asked to come for material testing of the structure but unfortunately they did not.” Asked why LASBCA failed to take decisive actions all the while to prevent a collapse, Oke-Osanyitolu, said “we are in a democracy. That is why we are saying that when government is doing the needful, our people need to key in too. Safety of lives and property is the business of everybody.” LASBCA GM, Kosegbe, also said the agency identified and marked the collapsed building in 2015 and 2019. She said that the marking was done after conducting a test indicating that the property was in a distress. “Our officers visited the building and sealed it to avoid loss of life. Investigation showed that some of the tenants cut the seal notice and continued living there,” she said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  