Enyioha Opara, Minna An All Progressives Congress chief in Niger State, Jonathan Vatsa, has said the emergence of Nigeria’s President from the South-East in 2023 is a right and not a privilege. Addressing journalists in Minna, Niger State capital on Friday, Vatsa, who is a former Niger State Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, said every well-meaning Nigerian, good Christian and  Muslim must support a President of Nigeria of South-East extraction. “If Nigerians have conscience, equity and justice demand that they should allow the Igbo to produce the next President in 2023. “I am convinced that the Igbo have made their consultations from the North, South and the majority of them are in support of a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction.” He expressed displeasure that some politicians from the North had called for the cancelation of rotational presidency between the North and South for what they termed meritocracy. Vatsa said Ndigbo were highly detribalised and could be found in the remotest villages in Nigeria, living peacefully and doing their businesses and paying taxes. He condemned the Arewa agitation for power to remain in the north, saying, “A lot of Arewa officials have been speaking that power should remain in the North as if it is their birthright; Nigeria belongs to all of us and it is bigger than what we think it is. In the spirit of fairness, if we really want to be together, the Igbo should be given a chance in 2023. “Apart from the time of Dr Nnamdi Azikwe and General Aguiyi Ironsi, we have never had Igbo President; so the Igbo should rise up and take what is due to them. The northerners are ready to support them and I am calling on the Igbo to speak with one voice if they must win in 2023. They must come together and forget their differences.” He, however, warned that the Igbo should watch out for those who would collect money either from the north or South-West to sell their conscience, adding that the Igbo man should not be treated as second citizens in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com