Adelani Adepegba, Ade Adesomoju and Adeniyi Olugbemi The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Friday arraigned one Muhammad Dangana before Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Maitama, Abuja, on 15 counts bordering on criminal diversion of funds, misappropriation and money laundering to the tune of over N587.7m. The Sokoto Zonal Office of the EFCC on Friday also arrested the Director of Finance, Ministry of Local Government, Sokoto State,  Danladi Chindo, and Nasiru Umar of the same ministry. They were arrested for alleged conspiracy, abuse of office and diversion of funds to the tune of N6.7m, which has however been recovered by the EFCC, its spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, disclosed in a statement in Abuja. Dangana, an executive assistant to the Financial Controller, ECOWAS Commission Secretariat, Abuja, is facing prosecution alongside Aliu Sesay, Saleh Dangana and others, who are at large. Count 14 of the charges read, “That you Muhammad Dangana, male adult, being the executive assistant to the Financial Controller, ECOWAS Commission Secretariat, Abuja, sometime in 2016 in Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did launder the sum of N200m you dishonestly diverted from ECOWAS Commission funds entrusted in your care and management by using same to purchase a plot of land, being Plot 36 Guzape District, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, thereby committed an offence, contrary to Section 15(2)(d) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act 11 (as amended) and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act.” The defendant pleaded not guilty to all the charges, prompting the prosecution team, led by Mr Wahab Shittu to ask the court for a trial date. Uwujaren explained in a statement that Justice Abang remanded Dangana in prison custody and scheduled November 11, 12, 13 and 14 for trial. The arrest of Chindo and Umar followed a petition by 63 staff of Kebbe Local Government Area of Sokoto State alleging  that the suspects misappropriated their salaries for the months of April to September, 2019. Investigation revealed that the salaries were stopped for some malicious reasons. The suspects will be charged to court after investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com