Peter Dada, Akure The coordinator of a youth group that organised a political rally in support of the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, last week in Akure, Mr Bamise Akintomide, has been quizzed by Ondo State Police Command. Akintomide was alleged to have been arrested and detained by the police for organising the rally for the Vice President last week. A media report said he had been detained at the Criminal and Investigation Department at the headquarters of the command in Akure, the state capital. However, Akintomide said on Monday that he was only invited to the command on Friday and was asked some questions which he answered appropriately and was shortly asked to go. He said, “We had issues with some security agents last week but we have resolved them. I was neither arrested nor detained.” The state police command has also denied the media report that Akintomide was arrested for organising a rally for the Vice President. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Femi Joseph, when contacted, said there was no arrest of anybody called Akintomide. “I am not aware, we didn’t arrest anyone with that name, not in this command,” Joseph declared. Meanwhile, Akintomide, in a statement he issued on Monday on the pro-Osinbajo rally, said the group was non-partisan and was not sponsored by anybody in and outside the state. The statement read, “The group is a non-governmental organisation and has no political attachment with any political party or the APC in the state. The rally was not sponsored or funded by politicians within or outside the state but the idea was the decision of the group to throw our weight behind the Vice President. “It should also be on record that the rally was not politically orchestrated or motivated and not intended to slight the party or any individual but to support an idea and a person we believe in. We engaged in the rally for no financial gain or to cause distraction in the state or the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 