Ademola Babalola, Ibadan The Oyo State Government has vowed to ensure the prosecution and jailing of the arsonists, who burnt down a block of three classrooms at the Canon Okusehinde Memorial Primary School, School I, Aremo. The incident reportedly occurred on Monday. The Executive Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Nureni Adeniran, made the vow when he visited the school on Tuesday to assess the level of destruction. Condemning the arsonists, Adeniran stated that the government would investigate the incident and fish out all those involved, adding that anyone found culpable would face the wrath of the law. He stated, “The Oyo State Government will ensure that this particular incident of arson is investigated and the offenders punished in accordance with the law. “The present administration will not condone any form of vandalism or sabotage, especially of our public schools. “We will use the perpetrators as an example to others that arson is a very serious offence, especially when the public school that represents liberation from all forms of backwardness is concerned.” Adeniran also promised that the government would put in place viable security measures and an end to the growing instances of arson, vandalism and destruction of school facilities in the state. He promised the renovation of the burnt classes under the next FGN-UBEC/OYOSUBEB intervention projects. He also approved the merger of pupils of the burnt classes with their mates in the School 2, adding that nothing should affect the learning process of the pupils. The Head Teacher of the School I, Mrs Sherifat Salam, described the incident as the height of vandalism. She told the SUBEB chairman that hoodlums had repeatedly burgled the school in the past. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 