Maiharaji Altine, Gusau The committee set up by the Zamfara State Government to find solutions to banditry in the state has recommended the removal of five emirs, 33 district heads in its report submitted on Friday. Presenting the report to Governor Muhammad Bello Matawalle, the Committee Chairman, retired Inspector General of Police, Alhaji M.D Abubakar, said the five emirs, 33 district heads and some village heads were found guilty of aiding banditry in the state. The former IG said, ” The committee has recommended the disposition of five emirs, 33 district heads and a number of village heads who have been found in some atrocities that led to the menace of armed banditry with all it’s attendance consequences.” One of the emirs, according to the committee’s report would be charged to court for alleged culpable homicide and hiding bandits in his domain. The committee has also recommended the immediate overhauling and restructuring of all the 17 Emirates in the state to look more decent as done in other states. The committee also recommended that the Federal Government should court-marshal ten military officers for their evolvements in unholy activities relating to armed banditry in the state. Four police officers were recommended for dismissal by the committee, four other police officers for demotion, while seven of them were recommended for promotion. The committee chairman called on the state government to ensure the implementation of its report, stressing that, “The peace currently being enjoyed by the people of the state depends largely on the ability and the political will of the governor to implement the recommendation.” In his response, Governor Matawalle commended the committee for a job well done, assuring it that, since he had sworn to protect the lives and properties of the people of his state, personal relationship, sectional, religious or ethic interest would not influence his decision in the implementation of the committee’s report. He stated that he would also meet with the President on other recommendations relating to the Federal Government. Although the committee did not mention the personalities affected at the time of submitting its report, some of the Emirs were absent during the presentation of the report.