Ted Odogwu, Kano The Kano State Police Command has rescued eight kids kidnapped from various locations within the state metropolis. City Round learnt that the kids were kidnapped between 2014 and 2019, but were traced to Anambra State where they were sold. Parading the suspects, the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, said the kidnap syndicate was busted when one Paul Owne, kidnapped one Haruna Bako and attempted to relocate him to Anambra State, from where he would be sold. The CP disclosed that Bako was abducted on September 11, 2019, on his way home from Islamiyya School at Yankaba quarters of the state capital. He said, ‘’The command’s tactical team of Operation Puff Adder attached to the anti-kidnapping squad was detailed for discreet investigation in the course of which the suspects were arrested. They confessed to have conspired among themselves and abducted various children from areas like Sauna, Kwanar Jaba, Kawo, Hotoro Yankaba and Dakata quarters all within the Kano metropolis.’’ Also, the police boss said one Sagir Bako alerted the police to the missing of several children, aged between two and six years, adding that the children were being taken to various unknown destinations. Among the suspects arrested were Paul Owne, Mercy Paul, Emmanuel Igwe, Ebere Ogbodo, Louisa Duru and Monica Orachaa. The CP said the kids had been reunited with their respective family members. Meanwhile, the command arrested 124 suspects before, during and after the 59th Independence anniversary celebrations. The suspects were paraded for various offences ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery, carjacking, drug abuse, among others. The CP said 22 vehicles, 15 rifles, drugs, cutlasses and knives were recovered from the suspect. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 