Tony Okafor, Awka The Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital chapter of the  Medical and Dental Consultants’ Association of Nigeria, has threatened to begin an indefinite  strike  if the Anambra State Government fails to increase their  pay  within seven days. However, Governor Willie Obiano  has fired back, saying  the state government  will not bow to threats. The doctors had suspended their  two-month strike in July. But on  Wednesday, they  issued the   state government a seven-day ultimatum  to commence payment  of  higher salaries or face strike action. The  Chairman of the association, Dr Chukwudi Okani,  said at a press conference in Awka they  would go on strike indefinitely  if the state government failed to meet their demands. According to him,   medical consultants in the institution receive  smaller salaries  than  house officers in  the federal medical centres in  the South-East. The MDCAN chief  added, “Our  ultimatum  was due to the  inability of the state  government to implement  the agreement it reached with us after the suspension of our July 8 strike. “After the suspension of the   strike, we agreed with the state government that    consultants in the   state  and consultants in teaching hospitals should receive equal pay.” He lamented  that since the suspension of the strike, the committee set up by the governor had not submitted its report. Speaking through the state  Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr C-Don Adinuba, Obiano wondered why the doctors would threaten him with an industrial action when he had concluded arrangements to better their conditions of service. The statement said, “The committee (set up by Obiano)  was scheduled to hold its final meeting  on October 29 before sending its report to the governor for consideration.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  