Edward Nnachi and Gibson Achonu The outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra says there is no insecurity in the South-East geopolitical zone to warrant the launch of the ongoing Operation Python Dance 4 in the region by the Nigerian Army. The group claimed that what appeared like insecurity in the zone was caused by “land- grabbing Fulani terror herdsmen” made possible by leaders of the region. The group’s Media and Publicity Director, Emma Powerful, who made the assertion in a statement on Saturday, said the Nigerian Army should instead focus on the North-East almost ravaged by activities of Boko Haram and other forms of insurgency. The group said the consistent re-launch of OPD signalled that the army had only resorted to fighting defenceless Nigerians instead of protecting the nation’s territorial and external borders. The statement read in part, “There is no insecurity in the South-East save for those introduced by land-grabbing Fulani terror herdsmen, aided by the region’s governors. ‘‘Exposing and making sure the whole world knows about the evil plans of the Nigerian government and its security agencies against the people of Biafra is our responsibility and that we shall continue to do.’’ Meanwhile, the National Coordinator, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, Mr Emmanuel Onwubiko, has urged the people of the South-East to constructively engage the operatives of the Nigerian Army whenever military exercise begins in the area. Onwubiko made the appeal at a press conference in Owerri on Saturday. READ ALSO: Oyo explains spending N7.6bn loan on farm settlements Speaking on the theme, ‘Urgency for constructive engagement between civil society and military to promote national security’, he said Nigerian citizens had right in the country of their own. He assured the people of the South-East that they would take the campaign farther than Imo State. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 