Sola Shittu, Benin Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has vowed to flush out dissidents in the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state. The governor stated this on Friday while inaugurating new board members for the state agencies, the Edo Development and Property Authority, Edo City Transport Service, Health Management Board and the Board of Technical and Vocational Education. He explained that the delay in constituting boards for various agencies and parastatals was because he did not want business as usual. He said he needed to clean up the rot in the agencies and parastatals before constituting board members. “Past boards did not help those agencies they were appointed to preside over. We took time to swear in new board members because we didn’t want it to be normal process. We have taken time to reform most of those institutions. These boards are going to perform a lot of activities to support the policy we are pursuing,” he said. Obaseki also praised faithful members of the Edo APC but vowed to flush out any dissident APC member in the state. “I want to thank those APC members that have remained committed. You know we have not wasted government money. We are progressives because we want to make tomorrow better for our children. Many have derailed. We thank God they have derailed because their hearts were not pure. “We will flush them out. We own the land. We determine who our leader will be. Nobody can come here and impose on us who we don’t want,” he said. In a related development, the party in the state has set up a committee to investigate and sanction members of Edo Peoples Movement, whose activities have been described as “divisive and unconstitutional”. The state party chapter drew the battle line against the EPM and its members after an emergency meeting of its executive committee. In a statement on Friday by its Assistant State Secretary, Anthony Ikuenobe, the party also passed a vote of confidence in Obaseki and his government. Ikuenobe said the decision was reached at an emergency meeting of the party’s State Executive Committee held at the APC secretariat in Benin City, the Edo State capital. The APC, however, congratulated the governor on the award of ‘The Best Performing Governor in Education in Nigeria’ by the National Union of Teachers. The statement read in part, “At the emergency meeting of the SEC of the APC, Edo State, held at the party secretariat, and upon a motion by Timothy Osadolor, state auditor and duly seconded by Alhaji Abubakar Akokia, Etsako West LGA party chairman, the following resolutions were unanimously passed: that the group known as the Edo Peoples Movement is a divisive and unconstitutional contraption being a factional or parallel group within the APC which offends Article 21 of the constitution of the party. “That a committee should be set up immediately to deal with cases related to the activities of the said group and make appropriate recommendations to the SEC for necessary action.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 