Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Osun State Police Command on Friday paraded one Teslim Raji described as a serial criminal facing investigation for multiple murders, gun-running, kidnapping and leading unlawful criminal gang. Raji was paraded alongside Femi Bamidele, said to be his client. The 35-year-old Raji, a herbalist from Ikoyi, Osun State, said he was the leader of the Oodua Peoples Congress in the town and denied being part of criminal activities in the area. Sources in Ikoyi told our correspondent that on September 19, 2019, there was exchange of gunshots between the police and some people believed to be working for Raji. Parading the suspects, Osun State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Ige, said in several letters of complaint, Raji was alleged to have killed one Sunday Ogoja at Forest Reserve, near Orile Owu on November 14, 2018. She added that the suspect also allegedly murdered Abiodun Akande at Aremo Royal Hotel, Orile Owu, adding that the suspect also sponsored criminal gangs involved in kidnapping and armed robbery in Ikire Area Command. Ige said 15 guns, 20 live cartridges, three knives and some charms were recovered from the suspect’s Ikoyi residence. “Last year, he was arrested, charged to court and granted bail but he jumped bail. After jumping bail, he went to kill someone and since then, the police have been on his trail. His conspirator was arrested earlier when our officer went to his house and one of his boys tried to escape,” Ige said. But Raji said on the day policemen came to his house, he was not around but later went to their station following his lawyer’s advice. He said, “I am a herbalist and a member of the OPC as well as the head of security in Ikoyi community. The community engaged us. The local government authorities also know about us. “The guns recovered from my house were those we used to secure our community. The guns were sold to me by one Jimoh from Kogi State. I met him in Ibadan and some of them were registered while some were not.” When contacted to ascertain the status of Raji, Osun OPC Coordinator, Deji Aladesawe, said the suspect was not a member of the group. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 