A human rights lawyer, Mr Morakinyo Ogele, on Thursday, dragged the Inspector-General of Police,  Mohammed Adamu, before a High Court in Ado Ekiti, seeking N1 billion damages over the alleged killing of two students of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti. Joined in the suit is the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the late students, Kehinde Dada, a 100 level student of the Department Agriculture and Horticulture and Okonofua Joseph, a 300 level Biology Education student, were both killed by gunshots allegedly fired by policemen. The students were protesting the epileptic power supply in the university. Ogele filed the suit pursuant to Order 11 Rule 1 of the Fundamental Rights (Enforcement Procedure Rules) 2009. Read also: PHOTOS: Despite N8bn budgeted for education, Gombe pupils learn under trees In a suit number HAD/A09RFRM/2019 , the applicant prayed the court to determine whether it is lawful for the officers of the respondents to kill the students in such a brutal manner. He urged the court to also determine, “whether it is lawful for the court to award damages against the respondents under the circumstance”. In an eight–paragraph Written address attached to the application, the applicant described the shooting “as an abridgment of the rights of the deceased as enshrined in section 33 of the 1999 constitution and that such action amounted to extrajudicial killing”. Ogele sought a declaration that the killing was a breach of the constitution and also demanded an order directing the respondents to conduct a serious investigation within the Ekiti Police Command and identify the officers responsible for the killings. He also sought an order directing the police to prosecute the officers and an order compelling the respondents to conduct compulsory psychiatric tests on their officers for the safety of the Nigerian citizens. The rights activist sought an order directing the respondents to pay a sum of N1bn as damages to the families of the students. No date has been fixed for hearing in the suit. (NAN)