Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate, on Wednesday, urged the executive arm of government to develop a national legal framework to tackle illegal artisanal mining in the country. The red chamber also urged the Federal Government to further clean up areas affected by lead poisoning in Zamfara State as well as rehabilitate those affected and deal with environmental degradation in the state. The lawmakers made these resolutions following a motion, “Need to check illegal mining activities in the country” by Senator Ya’u Sahabi (PDP Zamfara North) and co-sponsored by 32 other senators while in plenary session. Leading the debate on the motion, Sahabi said, “Nigeria is rich in over 40 types of minerals, with the solid minerals sector proving to be a potential source of economic development and diversification of the economy.” He also recalled that exploration and exploitation of mineral resources in the country dates back to 1902 with the production of tin, coal and considerable tonnes of gold annually. He noted that the objective of the National Policy on Solid Minerals was to ensure the orderly development of mineral resources for the country. READ ALSO: FG returns toll gates on federal highways The lawmaker lamented that illegal mining activities have continued to increase across the country, especially in Niger, Plateau, Zamfara, Enugu, Ebonyi and Imo States. Sahabi quoting a 2018 online report noted that over two million people depend on illegal mining for their livelihood. He added that the illegal activities of miners accounted for over 80 per cent of mining in the country without any revenue accruals to the government. He also lamented that solid minerals sector’s contribution to the gross domestic product, GDP of the country, had dwindled due to illegal mining. He said, “While Nigeria gets less from the sector, other African countries enjoy significant contribution from the sector to their GDP. “For example, the sector contributes over 40 per cent to the GDP of Botswana, and in Congo and South Africa, it is about 25 per cent and 18 per cent respectively.” A former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu, said the best way to stop illegal mining in the country was to remove Item 39 from the schedule of the Constitution which gives control of solid minerals to the Federal Government. Ekweremadu alleged that some states were involved in activities of illegal mining, advising that 30 per cent derivation should be given to states with high deposits of mineral resources like Zamfara State. In their separate contributions, senators Aba Moro and Adamu Aliero, lamented that the leakages in the solid minerals sector had not only been affecting revenue generation but causing environmental hazards to the people.