Etim Ekpimah A 64-year-old man, Bassey Archibong, of No. 10 Kunle Dipo Street, Majidun, Owutu, in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State, has been arraigned for having carnal knowledge of his four daughters aged between 12 and 20. It was learnt that Archibong had been having incestuous sexual relationship with the girls since 2016. Archibong was arraigned on three counts of continuous sexual relationship with his daughters, failure to get their consent and involvement in amoral relationship with the victims before the Ikorodu Magistrates’ Court 1, Lagos. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecutor, John Iberedem, said Archibong used food as bait to get the girls to consent to his amorous desire. Iberedem said whenever the children objected, he would refer to Lot in the Bible, who had sex with his daughters and was not punished by God. Iberedem stated that the offences were punishable under Section 265 (2) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2019. He said, “The defendant beat the children and starved them whenever they confronted him on why he was sleeping with them. “He would tell them that intercourse between fathers and daughters were normal and approved by God. “He told the children that God did not punish Lot, who had sexual intercourse with his children, meaning that He approves of the act.” The charges read in part, “That you, Bassey Archibong, between the years 2016 and 2019 at No. 10 Kunle Dipo Street, Majidun, Owutu, Ikorodu, Lagos State, in the Ikorodu Magisterial District, did engage your four daughters between the ages of 12 and 20 in sexual activities by having carnal knowledge of them continuously without their consent, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 265 (2) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015. “That you, Bassey Archibong, on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district, did have unlawful carnal knowledge of your 20-year-old daughter without her consent even when you knew that it was morally wrong, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 260 (1) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” The Chief Magistrate, Mrs F. A. Azeez, remanded the accused person in a correctional facility pending advice by the Director of Public Prosecutions. She adjourned the matter till October 30, 2019. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  