Samson Folarin A panel beater, Sani Bashorun, is demanding justice over the purported plans of the police at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, Lagos State, to give his recovered car, a Toyota Venza, to the man who bought it from a thief. The vehicle had been recovered since August but Bashorun alleged that the police said he must first part with N500,000 to retrieve it. Narrating his ordeal to PUNCH Metro, the 47-year-old Bashorun said his brother in the United States, Mustapha, sent the vehicle to him in April. The vehicle was said to have been delivered through a car dealer, Arije Sheriff. Bashorun said in May, he sought buyers for the vehicle and was introduced to one Azeez by a police inspector. The prospective buyer, however, fled with the sport utility vehicle without making payment and the matter was reported to the police by the dealer. Our correspondent learnt that Bashorun, the inspector and one Kehinde Olagunju were detained at the SCIID after they were accused of conspiracy and stealing. While the inspector was quickly released, Bashorun and Olagunju remained in detention for over a week. “I was released after I paid N30,000 for bail. The police asked me to go and look for the car,” he added. Sometime in August, while the matter was still on, the inspector reportedly sought the help of his colleagues at the Lagos State Police Command headquarters, Ikeja, to locate the vehicle. Our correspondent was told that after the policeman shared a photograph of the SUV with the officers, they recognised it as one of the vehicles they recently impounded from a buyer on the suspicion that it was stolen, but it was released back to the buyer after the intervention of a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police. The buyer was identified as an executive member of the Tricycle Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria. READ ALSO: Police arrest fake journalists in NASS The inspector reported his findings to Bashorun and the following day, the hunt to recover the vehicle commenced. The panel beater stated, “We went on Friday morning and we discovered that the buyer gave the police a wrong home address. “However, one of the policemen knew the park where he worked; they traced him there and recovered the vehicle.” PUNCH Metro gathered that the vehicle was found and taken to the SCIID, where it was confirmed to be stolen. The policemen, led by one Saudi, allegedly demanded N500,000 from the panel beater as a precondition for releasing the vehicle to him. “I told them that I did not have the money. The dealer also informed my brother in the US and he spoke to Saudi, because he discovered that they served together during their NYSC days. Saudi said the money was not for him and that it was going to the Police Trust Fund. My brother said he did not have money and that I should see what I could do to raise the money for them,” he explained. Bashorun said after his visits to the SCIID became frequent, he was warned to stay away, because he had become a pain in the neck of the cops. Not giving up, the 47-year-old said he asked a retired policeman to plead on his behalf. After the intervention, the money was reportedly reduced to N200,000. “I told them that I still could not raise that much. I begged to pay N50,000, but they refused. I was surprised because the policemen at the SCIID did not find the vehicle; police personnel at the command headquarters assisted us and we gave information that led to the recovery of the car. But they asked me to keep quiet and that I could not teach them their job,” he added. The retired policeman was said to have taken the matter up with the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the SCIID, Mrs Yetunde Alonge. Alonge expressed surprise at the demand and summoned Saudi to her office. Bashorun stated, “While she was interrogating him, she asked me to excuse them. About 40 minutes later, I was called in. She said the buyer of the vehicle had travelled for the hajj and that when he returned, they would decide on what to do. “When the man returned, he told the police not to release the vehicle to me because he had the original documents. I told them that the dealer had the valid documents and that what the man had were forged. “Two weeks ago, the man came with the retired AIG. They were boasting that they would collect the vehicle from me. “I called the retired policeman, who was assisting me. Unfortunately, when both retired police officers met at the SCIID, the one assisting me was a junior officer. The retired AIG said his man bought the vehicle.” Bashorun said he was shocked that the police kept the vehicle in their yard without conducting any investigation or arresting the main suspect. The car dealer, Sheriff, said he processed the customs papers, adding that the vehicle in police custody was the one he took delivery of. He noted that although he reported the theft of the vehicle to the police, he did not ask them to arrest Bashorun. The third suspect arrested by the police, Olagunju, lamented that he lost his job after being detained for a crime he knew nothing about. He said the receiver was supposed to be a suspect and not the one laying claim to the vehicle. Olagunju stated, “The police collected N100,000 from me: N50,000 to track the thief’s phone number and N50,000 for bail. After I was released, my employers refused to take me back and said the SCIID must write to them that I had been cleared. “And what role did I play in all these? I work in a hotel as a security guard. The inspector that I work together with introduced someone to me as his brother, who needed a car. I introduced the inspector to Bashorun. I did not join them when they went to the bank and the man fled. The police said I was guilty of conspiracy and stealing. “When we finally got the buyer of the vehicle, the police refused to ask him to produce the thief. If they had got the thief, I would have got a letter to return to my place of work.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Athlete gets ram gift for winning Doha medal The DCP in charge of the SCIID, Alonge, said efforts were on to arrest the principal suspect, whom she said was notorious for stealing vehicles after tricking their owners to a bank on the pretext of paying them. She added that the police wanted to know whose claim to the vehicle was genuine. “There are discrepancies in the papers used in clearing the vehicle from the port; so, we have written the Nigeria Customs Service to determine who owns the vehicle. The papers the purported receiver has show 2018 as the date of importation, while the alleged owner’s documents show 2019,” Alonge said. The senior police officer said Saudi denied the allegation of demanding N500,000, adding that the vehicle could not have been released without her authorisation. Alonge noted that nobody informed her of the money paid for bail. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 