Sola Shittu Tragedy struck on Saturday in Edo State as a BMW car overran four women said to be of the same parents at Uselu, on Lagos-Benin Road, Benin City and killed them on the spot. The driver who was with his wife reportedly lost control of the car and veered into the roadside where the four siblings were waiting to board a cab. One of the deceased women was said to be pregnant. The incident which happened around 6.30am sparked off a protest by the Uselu youths who mounted a roadblock. Our correspondent learnt the police later mobilised to the scene and shot into the air to disperse the angry youths. In the process, five persons were said to have sustained gunshot wounds; one in the shoulder, another at the chest. A protester was also reportedly shot in the eye. The spokesman for the group, Osas Ikpomwosa, said the police took two of the injured youths away. However, the protesting youths vowed not to leave the highway until their members arrested by the police were released. Ikpomwosa stated that the cops also removed the four bodies and deposited them at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. He said, “The accident happened around 6.15 am opposite Uselu Park. We woke up to see four female bodies on the road and two persons in the car, a man and a woman. I don’t know where they were coming from. One of the bodies was inside the gutter and two were on the road. The pregnant woman was lying lifeless on the road. I guess they were going to New Benin Market.” He added that the police rescued the car driver and the woman and took them to a hospital. Another youth Leader, Evans Uselu, said the deceased wanted to flee but were knocked down by the car because they could not cross over the gutter. READ ALSO: Madrid planning €100m plus Bale for Pogba “We have been asking government to close the gutter but they refused. It is too wide. That is why we are protesting. The four women are of the same family,” he said. The Edo State Police Public Relations officer, Chidi Nwabuzor, confirmed the incident, describing it as unfortunate. He said, “Our men were there to restore peace and they did their best. It was an accident and it was quite unfortunate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com