Etim Ekpimah Some residents of Orisunmibare Street in the Shasha area of Lagos State have faulted the police for arresting a security guard, Ado Abdullahi, for beating a suspected thief to death. They stated that the deceased had been terrorising the community for a while and that his death was a victory not only for the security guard, but for all the residents of the area. A resident, who identified himself simply as Tunde, said he was surprised that the police arrested the security guard. He stated that many residents had lost personal belongings to the thief. Tunde stated, “We are not comfortable with the manner in which the police are handling the issue. First, the guard was arrested by cops from the Shasha Police Station and was later transferred to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department. “Right now, we can’t tell what they are doing with him at the SCIID, Yaba. Abdullahi did not do anything wrong by protecting himself and those he was paid to protect. “Suppose the thief was able to overpower him, kill him and leave with the stolen property, what would the police have said? I don’t see a good reason why the man is still being held by the police.” he said. Another resident, who spoke with PUNCH Metro on condition of anonymity, said the way the police were treating cases involving suspected armed robbers, cultists and kidnappers was encouraging youths to go into crime. He said, “I won’t say much. This particular guy, whom the guard was able to bring down, had been a terror in this area. “Many of us were living in fear because he could strike with other members of his gang anytime they liked. “We often read about the police killing armed robbery suspects. How many of these policemen have been arrested and jailed? There is no difference between what happened in this instance and those by the police. Sometimes, one needs to act in self-defence to avoid being killed.” When contacted, the telephone of the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, rang out. He had yet to respond to a text message sent to his mobile telephone line as of the time of filing this story. But the Deputy Commissioner of Police, SCIID, Yetunde Longe, said the matter was being handled by the Homicide Section of the department. She stated that the deceased was not a robber, but happened to be at the place at the wrong time, adding that Abdullahi hit the deceased on the head with a baton. Longe said Abdullahi would be charged for murder in accordance with his confessional statement. She stated, “It was one security guard, who saw the deceased, accosted him and hit him with a big baton, which led to his death. Nobody had ever raised any suspicion about him; he only happened to be seen at an odd hour. “We will arraign Abdullahi this week. It is a case of murder, which has been established.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 