Ademola Babalola Ibadan, the Oyo State capital was literally shut down for hours on Saturday as eminent Nigerians who are old students and their well wishers celebrated 150th anniversary of St Anne’s School, Molete, Ibadan. St Anne’s can be said to be one of the oldest girls’ institutions in West Africa. It was 150 years on July 26, this year. The patron of the school is St. Anne, who is regarded as the mother of the Virgin Mary. At the event organised by the Seminary/St. Anne’s School Old Girls’ Association were Prof. Oyinade Olurin; Mrs Omotolani Akinsanya and wife of the former Chairman, Punch Nigeria Limited, Mrs Iyabo Ogunsola. Other SSASOGA included the Chairman, Nigerian Tribune Newspaper, Ambassador Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu; Chief Winifred Awosika; Dr Kofo Odusote; Mrs Emily Aig-Imhokuede; Mrs Sade Ogunlade; Mrs Omotayo Morgan; Sade Akinkugbe; Dame Ejuyitchie-Oroye; Dr Omolara Smith; Prof. Remi Sonaiya; Prof. Olabopo Osuntokun and Mrs Funke Osotimehin. In his sermon, the Lord Bishop of Ibadan Diocese, Most Rev J. O. Akinfenwa urged the old girls to work in unity to further lift the fortune of the school. Akinfenwa prayed to God to bless the alumni members and grant them the grace to celebrate the school beyond its 150th anniversary. The alumni members in their hundreds filed out in white attire with anniversary head-gear made from traditional fabric, to match. SSASOGA thereafter converged on the school’s premises and Jogor event centre where representatives of CMS Girls Seminary; Kudeti Girls School and St. Anne’s School reminisced on their times in the school and the glorious times they had together over the years. The school commenced a three-day event which started on Thursday with the 1974 – 1979 Set’s 40th school leaving anniversary thanksgiving and quiz competition. The chairperson of the 150th anniversary, Mrs Olufunmilayo Sholeye, said, “In fulfilment of the mandate given to our committee to plan, organise and execute a successful 150th celebration to mark the all-inclusive achievements of the first girl’s secondary school in Nigeria, we were able to get in touch with some old students of this school in the spirit of collaboration for them to contribute to their alma mater.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 