Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna There was confusion in Sabon Gari area of Zaria in Kaduna State on Thursday over the proposed bill to ban the sale and consumption of alcohol in the area. The hearing of the proposed bill took place at the Sabon Gari Local Government Area secretariat where stakeholders expressed their views. Sabon Gari is a settlement for non-indigenes. The Sabon Gari Local Government Area had in a letter dated 21st October 2019 invited hotel owners and beer parlour proprietors association otherwise known as Liquor Association for the public hearing. READ ALSO: EFCC re-arraigns ex-INEC chair, Maurice Iwu, for alleged N1.23bn fraud At the hearing on Thursday, the hotel owners through their  lawyer, Mr. Daniel Peter, noted that Local Governments in Nigeria have the powers to licence, regulate and control the sales of liquor, but argued that they do not have the power to prohibit the sale of liquor as well as do not have legislative power to prohibit consumption of beer. He noted that sections 5 and 6 of the said the bill clearly prohibits the sale and consumption of alcohol but added that it was outside the legislative powers of Local Governments which is  “clearly stated in the fourth schedule of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999(as amended) and therefore ultra vires and not within the legislative competence of LGs.” He also noted that section 7 of the proposed bill which talked about prostitution had been legislated by the Kaduna State  House of Assembly in section 169 of the Kaduna State Penal code which was applicable and enforceable in Sabon Gari LG based on its constitutional powers. However,  the hoteliers recommended that “the proposed bill should, in fact, be on licencing, regulation and control of the sale of liquor as clearly stated in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and not to prohibit sale and consumption of alcohol. “Sabon Gari should be guided by its legislative powers conferred by the constitution and not arrogate unto itself extra powers outside the provision s of the law. “That in exercising its constitutional powers of control in this regards, the sale of alcohol can be exempted. “That all persons who sell alcohol within the Local Government must belong to Liquor Association within the Local Government for easy identification, regulation and control. “That the Local Government should only give licence for sell of alcohol or liquor to persons approved by Liquor Association within the Local Government so as to ensure easy/proper regulation and control.” Also, pushing for the suspension of the bill at the hearing was a local liquor (also known Brukutu) seller, Richard Sankai, who said that the sale of the drink had in no small measures assisted widows among others to take care of their family. Meanwhile, the Jama’atu Nasril Islam and the Christian Association of Nigeria in Zaria said no religious body advocated or preached for the sale and consumption of liquor but urged the council to thread with caution in handling the proposed bill in accordance with the constitution of the country.