The Kwara State Police Command has uncovered another Islamic rehabilitation centre, Sumuratu Mumeen Arabic Centre, Gaa-Odota Area in Ilorin, where 108 people detained under inhuman condition were rescued. The State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Kayode Egbetokun, made this known on Thursday in Ilorin while briefing newsmen in his office. Egbetokun said the command acted on an intelligence surveillance and raided the centre where 103 males and five females were discovered unlawfully detained in the centre. “Some of the victims were observed to suffer some forms of infections and diseases and were not treated, while some others were mentally ill. “Some of them, during interview, claim they were brought to the centre by their parents,” said the CP. He said investigation was ongoing and that the Police command would take care of the victims until their parents come for them. One of the victims, Waliyu Ali, said his parents took him there because he was addicted to Indian hemp. He added that his parents believed that the place was a rehabilitation centre and that he would stop smoking cannabis if he spent some time there. Another victim, Abdulazeez Korede, said, “My parents took me there because I was a drug addict and they wanted to stop me from taking hard drugs. “But to my surprise, when my parents left, I was chained and beaten up mercilessly and taken underground where other guys like me were kept. “I was kept in a dungeon for four months where there was no sunlight or window and no proper food.” Another inmate, Tope Owonifari, said he was taken there because he was troublesome and used to smoke cigarette. He added that despite the founder collecting N15,000 monthly food allowance from his parents, “I was not given proper meal.” “The owner of the centre charged my parents N200,000 for the treatment and I spent four days there, which was like four years to me,” he added. Owonifari commended the Kwara Police Command for rescuing them. One of the female victims, Olaide Arikewuyo, said she had spent five years at the centre and alleged that she had been sexually abused by the uncle of the owner of the facility. “I was living with the owner of the centre in their apartment and the uncle used to have canal knowledge of me every night. “Since I had nobody to turn to and it was not easy to escape from there, I have been abused by five men. “In the process, I got impregnated and had three abortions. “I just thank God that the Police came to my rescue,” she said. NAN reports that a similar camp was recently discovered by the Police, known as the Mallam Niga Rehabilitation Centre, at Rigasa, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, where 147 detainees were rescued. Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari on October 19 directed the Police to uncover all illegal detention (rehabilitation) centres and rescue those held there.  (NAN)