Ambassador Ibrahim Abdullahi is the Sarkin Bai of Gombe and a former Minister of Education, Science and Technology. The 80-year-old, who was also a Commissioner for Agriculture, shares his childhood and work experience with CHIMA AZUBUIKE Where and when were you born? I was born in the present day Gombe State in 1939. Well, in those days people didn’t keep records of their date of birth but having calculated when I was employed by the former Northern Nigeria, I had to find something very close to my birthday. How did you know your birth date? I made an enquiry and investigated and found out that I was born on October 1, 1939. My mother only remembered I was born in October, but she was not sure of the specific date. But my older brother, whose first child is as old as I am, told me he started working in 1939, and that he was in a certain village when a relation informed him of my birth. My mum was sure about the day (of the week) in October, 1939. There was nothing written. Who were your parents? Both of them are of blessed memory. My father has a house next door to the emir’s palace. My father grew up in Gombe Abba; that was the original Gombe. My mother was from a village in Kwami, also in Gombe. My father was a employee of the emir’s palace; he was one of the courtiers of the emir’s palace. He eventually grew in rank to become the first district head of Kwami in 1951. What was your childhood like? I grew up in a highly polygamous but aristocratic family. Can you tell us about the schools you attended? I attended elementary school at Hassan Deba Central Primary School. I sat the common entrance examination in Northern Nigeria. I attended Zaria Secondary School in January, 1955, now Balewa College. We didn’t have much choices in those days but before I could finish my secondary education, jobs were waiting for me. There was no polytechnic in those days. I was sponsored for a programme at the Technical Institute in Kaduna, by the native authority. Where did you work? I was drafted to the native authority to work as engineering assistant in January, 1960. I also worked as district officer because I worked in the field. I was the first permanent secretary in the Ministry of Works and after the reforms, I was redeployed to Ministry of Agriculture and my rank kept increasing. When former Governor Abubakar Tatari Ali  won election in 1979 in Bauchi, he decided to appoint me as a commissioner of agriculture. I eventually resigned and joined the banking system. In spite of my previous experience, I was trained by the United Bank for Africa for 12 months before I became an area manager. I was appointed as the executive director of erstwhile International Bank for West Africa, AfriBank. I rose to become the Managing Director of Afribank. I was there untill (Muhammadu) Buhari government came in during the military era and I was appointed as minister of education, science and technology. He (Buhari), thereafter, redeployed me to Ministry of Works as a minister. I remember when I was about to be appointed as a commissioner in Bauchi, I had to retire from the civil service. I was also appointed as an ambassador to Malaysia. What was the ‘northernisation’ policy all about? It was a policy adopted by the late Sardauna, Sir Ahmadu Bello. The system stipulates you have to have northerners and they have their definition of Northerners – those who belong to the provinces and groups under Northern Nigeria, irrespective of religion, class and tribe. The vision was to train capable northerners who can replace those existing ones at that time – those none-northerners working for the north from the messenger to the highest cadre. This was before independence. The top people then were the British, but the policy then was not to replace just the British, but also people from the south who came to work. They (northern authorities) organised various professional courses to fast track the idea of a takeover. It worked very well because this policy was pursued with vigor; they didn’t just pick you because you are a northern but they knew they could not manufacture university graduates overnight. So they organised trainings. What was your experience in the places you worked? I had a working experience in the Sokoto province. I was posted to the Gwandu division. I had the opportunity of knowing the various locations and, unfortunately, since I left, I have not been able to visit except on assignments or functions. Whereever you were posted to in Northern Nigeria, you would find yourself in a mini Northern Nigeria. The policy of the Sardauna was never to post you in your own home. When did you retire? I retired as a permanent secretary in the old Bauchi (State). How was the experience as an ambassador? My experience as ambassador was wonderful. A man, at that time, came to me with the idea that he was encouraging Nigerian food in Malaysia. In fact, I usually invited them to the official residence (in Malaysia) for them to feel at home. I will not mention his name so that you won’t know the part of Nigeria he is from. So, I went to open the food shop. But to my  disappointment, the Malaysian government refused to give him a staying visa but with my intervention, they gave him a re-entry visa, only for me to realise that he was a drug baron. I thought that was unfair to me and my country. What is your relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari? Well, he is our oga. In our culture and in Islam, you obey your creator and your leaders and for now the leader of my country is Buhari. Our relationship has become personal; it has moved to the family level and I will do all within my power to help him succeed. Tell us about your politics life? I’m a member of the All Progressives Congress now. Initially, why I joined politics was for state creation and we succeeded in getting Gombe State created. I was nominated as a member of the 1994 national conference, which I participated in, and from there we started putting heads together to form political parties and, somehow, we formed the best organised political party, All Nigeria Congress, with membership across all divides. I think we didn’t impress the late Gen. Sani Abacha, (so) we fizzled away. I was a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party. I made an attempt to become the governor of Gombe State, under the PDP, but it didn’t work out. I attended three constitutional conferences, including the one organised by former President (Goodluck) Jonathan. The first two (conferences) were more impressive. The last one was more of a fiasco because it was prearranged. Apparently, the government wanted certain things and they had the support of the leadership of the conference – from the chairman, secretary and so on. I must say openly that that report was not what the conference wanted. The voting was not fair. Some have been clamouring that President Buhari should implement the report of the last conference. What do you think about that? It is because there is a clique pushing for that report. It will kill Nigeria if you implement it. If you force it on the people, it will be unfortunate. What do you do in retirement? I tried manufacturing agricultural sacks but because I could not supervise it myself, I had to shut it down. It didn’t succeed. I had to pay off the loans. Then, there was nothing like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission but I envisaged its establishment and I didn’t want to be a friend to the EFCC. I chose to sell my personal assets to clear the loan. I also tried housing development, though I didn’t go into it seriously. Presently, I’m into farming. After the conference, I did not retire but I became less active in politics because I wasn’t happy with the sincerity of those who have the responsibility for leadership. They insisted on making Nigerians think the way they wanted. (Chief Olusegun) Obasanjo, as President, had his way of doing things, and up till now, he has his ways of doing things and in many cases, not the right thing, but to satisfy his own ego as the most powerful person in the country. Obasanjo wanted the PDP in his own image; this was the beginning of the crisis of the party. But from the inception, it was the best political party. Obasanjo began the dissection of the party from his own time. PDP was the best party founded on good principles but Obasanjo dug the downfall of the party. How did you meet your wife? Which one; my first wife? I have three wives. During our time there was nothing like courtship. My parents went on my behalf. The parents of the boy sought permission from the would-be wife. I married her in 1960. Prior to our marriage, I never met her mother. I could see the father from a distance. I didn’t marry her because I could afford to, but because my family could cater for us when there was the need for their intervention. What is your favourite song? I used to have one many years ago. Mainly, I listen to Hausa songs, like The Arches by the late Shata Mamman. Would you say you’ve lived a life of fulfillment? What more do you want from life? I thank my creator, Allah. I’m fulfilled; what is left for me is to die as a faithful Muslim and for peace to prevail in my country. If there is something I can do to promote peace, certainly I will do so. What were your happiest and saddest moments? My happiest day after getting married was when I went to Mecca for the first time. In my life, I have had relationships with sincere friends. My saddest moment was the demise of my very good friend who was a former general manager of the Upper Benue Authority. I used to have three of them. A former governor of Central Bank of Nigeria and the late Emir of Gombe were my close friends and they are no more. Do you have any regrets? Oh yes! If I will have my life again, I rather begin as a teacher. First and foremost, I won’t start until I have rounded off my university degree and professional teaching courses. I like teaching because of my love for children. Teaching is a profession where God gives you more children than you bargained for. All the kids become your children. The nation cannot survive without teachers. The better we treat teachers, the better for us. Do you still farm at your age? Every evening, I visit my farm. I farm cowpea, groundnut, beans and so on. I don’t farm to look for money; it is not in my character. I like a comfortable life but there is a limit to how much money I want to make. In our contemporary country, it is so irritating, to put it mildly, (when) you find seemingly respectable people taking public funds into their private account. Do they ask themselves what they need the money for? The people who stole public funds during the previous administrations, are they happy enjoying it? But look at our own oga Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd.); after a meritorious service, he is still relevant, happy and active – a worthy lesson. How do you view the (Col. Sambo) Dasuki case? I don’t know about Dasuki. It is only what I read in the newspapers. I’m not in a hurry to believe what you journalists write. Unfortunately, we don’t know where to get the truth. I don’t want to comment on what I don’t know. Like I said, I’m against public office holders who misappropriate public funds. This does not work. If you do something dishonestly, it will boomerang. What do you do with billions of naira? Anyone planning misappropriation, misdirection of funds should think through why he wants so much money. Responsibility to family members nuclear and extended does not require so much money. What is your advice to the younger generation? They should invest their time in being educated to whatever level possible so that they can contribute to the development of the country. I want young men and women to know that they have special gifts given by Allah. We have no other country than this one. It our duty and, hopefully, our pleasure to make it a utopian place, the best in the world. I love Nigeria very much. I don’t believe in resurrection but if there is such, I still want to be a Nigerian. What has been keeping you this young and healthy? It is peace of mind. I don’t bother myself about making money. Mind you, I like to enjoy my life. I like a comfortable life but I don’t think stealing should be an option to living a comfortable life. You can be honest and still be comfortable How do you relax? I live a really local Gombe life. From time to time, I call some friends. I have cut short my travel. I rarely travel now because of age. I relax in the company of friends. When it has been long since I saw them, I phone them. In situations when the person is not too far, I visit them, but because of age, I have reduced my travelling. Have we got the Nigeria of our dream? It will be unfair to my country to say I have got the Nigeria of my dream, I mean not with armed robbery, banditry and stealing of public funds; I can’t be happy. I love my country and it will get better. My generation and previous generations have not created a utopia. It is my belief that our children will restore the glory of the land. I have travelled the five continents. But England is exceptional. I look forward to a Nigeria that is peaceful, where rights are protected and (where there is) social prosperity. What are some of the professions your children are involved in? I have 19 children. My first son is a director in Nigeria Deposit Insurance Company. Another just retired as commissioner of police and keeps me active in my old age. One of them is a civil servant. I also have an accountant, a banker and a university lecturer. My eldest daughter is married. One of my daughters is an assistant director. Another is a teacher in Dubai and is married to a professor in Dubai. I have a daughter, Aisha, who has developed a new interest in nursing. I’m hoping that they will also help others. Allah has been very good to members of my family; they (my children) have never known poverty while we have never cared to accumulate wealth. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com