Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The  Federal High Court, Abuja, on Friday ordered the remand of former Chairman of the Pension Reforms Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, in custody. Justice Okon Abang granted the remand order following a request by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission after the ex-PRTT chief pleaded not guilty to the 12 counts filed against him. The court also ordered the remand of his son, Faisal, in the custody of the  Police Special Technical Squad in Abuja. Lawyer for the EFCC, Mohammed Abubakar, said Faisal was being investigated by the police for illegal possession of a firearm and for allegedly using it on operatives during the arrest of his father. The duo were arraigned differently before the court on similar but different charges. While Maina is facing 12 counts of money laundering, operating fictitious bank accounts and fraud, his son is facing three counts of receiving money known to be from unlawful proceeds under a fictitious name. They both pleaded not guilty. After taking his plea, Abubakar prayed the court to allow the prosecution to call his first witness for commencement of trial. The defence counsel, Ahmed Raji (SAN), while objecting to the commencement of trial sought to move a formal bail application for Maina. After listening to the parties, the judge in his ruling said it would amount to a lack of fair hearing if the trial commenced without adequate preparations by the defendant. However, there was a mild drama when the judge told Maina not to look directly into his eyes, saying he was not comfortable. Justice Abang said, “I’m not comfortable with the way the defendant is looking into my eyes, I’m frightened. Registrar, please tell the defendant not to look at my face.” The judge consequently adjourned till October 30 for trial and November 19 for suitability of the bail application filed before arraignment. The judge gave the defendant 10 days to file and serve his written address on the prosecution, 10 days for reply and five days for reply on point of law. Having seen what happened in the case of Maina, the defence quickly withdrew the earlier bail application filed before  Faisal’s arraignment. Justice Abang consequently struck it out and fixed trial for November 6. He added that a hearing date would be fixed upon filing a fresh formal bail application for Faisal. READ ALSO: Obono-Obla sues ICPC, accuses commission of bias Justice Folasade Giwa-Ogunbanjo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Tuesday granted an interim forfeiture order on 23 properties traced to Maina. Justice Giwa-Ogunbanjo granted the order after hearing an ex parte motion by the EFCC. Maina, who evaded arrest for over four years, was arrested alongside his 20-year-old  son in an Abuja hotel on September 30 by the Department of State Services. Maina is alleged to be involved in the  N2.1bn pension fraud which led to arrest and prosecution of a number of public officials. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 