Olusola Fabiyi and Anna Okon Owners of car sales outlets in the country have appealed to the Nigeria Customs Service to open their businesses, saying they are losing what they described as huge sum of money due to the action of the service. They said though they were not in support of anyone invading payment of duties pm their cars, but also added that the Federal Government should make sure that the borders were properly manned. Their appeals followed the action of the Nigeria Customs Service Comptroller General Task Force and the Federal Operations Units across Nigeria, which had sealed about 120 car sales outlets in the last one week. One of our correspondent gathered that in addition to the 110 car sales outlets which were shut in the Federal Capital Territory, and other states in the North, including Kaduna, Kano, Ilorin, Sokoto and Kebbi,  more  than 10 car marts  that were shut down in Lagos had not been reopened. Chairman of Association of Motor Dealers of Nigeria,  Chief Don-Metche Nnadiekwe, who spoke with one of our correspondents,  said it was difficult for the affected dealers to estimate how much they lost. But he said that they had lost billions of naira to the action of the NCS, and begged the Federal Government to consider “the plight of the dealers, especially now that students are resuming schools and we are all struggling to pay their fees.” He said, “We cannot state the exact amount we have lost. But we have lost lots money. I want to appeal to the Federal Government that we should be allowed to carry on with our business. “We are not in support of people invading payment of duties. But how did the cars get into the country and the marts? The cars didn’t fly into the country. Who are the people allowing this? Government needs to look at this very well.” READ ALSO: Kidnappers demand N50m ransom for Kaduna pupils, teachers Meanwhile, the NCS said vehicle dealers who did not pay correct import duty on their vehicles before they were impounded would be required to pay the statutory import duty on such vehicles with additional 25 per cent of the applicable duty as penalty. The customs said this via a circular no HQ/005 2019 dated October 2, 2019 and titled “Detention and Seizure of Vehicles.’’ The circular was signed by Assistant Comptroller General of Customs, A.O.B Falade on behalf of the Comptroller-General. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com