Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Gunmen have abducted another civil defence officer with his wife and son at the Dafara community in the Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Our correspondent learnt the hoodlums also killed a vigilante member who ran into them during the attack on Wednesday night. The kidnap took place barely 72 hours after armed men in military camouflage kidnapped nine victims in Pegi community, a few kilometres from Dafara. A civil defence officer was among the victims, while another operative was injured by the assailants. A resident, who identified herself as Laide, said the incident happened around 9pm on Wednesday when the gunmen invaded the community and abducted the NSCDC officer, his wife and one of his children. She stated, “The invaders came through the bush, bulldozed their way into the civil defence officer’s home and abducted him, his wife and son. A vigilante who ran into them was shot dead. He was buried on Wednesday according to Islamic rites.” The Chairman of Pegi Community Development Association, Mr Taiwo Aderibigbe, confirmed the incident, lamenting that “Abuja is under siege.” He said, “Abuja is under siege, that is the truth but sadly, some people are playing politics with our lives, which is uncalled for.” The FCT police spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said security agencies were working to rescue the victims; he appealed for calm and asked residents to provide useful tips to aid the rescue operation. “The command has commenced a joint counter-operation against the latest kidnapping incident in Abuja. The joint operation comprising the police and other security agencies is also being extended to other identified black spots within the FCT. “The operation is aimed at rescuing hostages, arresting the suspects and permanently checkmating the emerging security concerns, especially around Kuje-Robuchi axis.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 