Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 28-year-old suspected cultist, Sunday Paul, has been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for allegedly killing over 15 residents of the Ikenne area of the state. Paul was arrested on Saturday. The Police Public Relations Officer in the State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the arrest in   a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said Paul, popularly called Blade, was the leader of the Eiye Confraternity in the area. According to the PPRO, the suspect is an ex-convict, who was recently released from a correctional centre on a murder-related case. Oyeyemi stated that the suspect confessed to have killed no fewer than 15 persons in the Ikenne area of the state. The PPRO explained that Paul had been on the police wanted list for a long time before he was eventually apprehended following an intensive surveillance and technical investigation of his activities. He added that the suspect also confessed to killing a rival cult member identified as Kabiru. Oyeyemi said, “The police in Ogun State have arrested a one-eyed man, who is a leader of the dreaded Eiye Confraternity in Ikenne and who is responsible for the killing of a least 15 people in Ikenne and its environs. “The suspect, Sunday Paul, aka Blade, who has been on the wanted list of the command, was arrested on September 21, 2019, following an intensive surveillance and technical investigation of his activities. “Upon his arrest, it was discovered that he had been nabbed and charged on three different occasions and he recently came out of a correctional centre over a murder-related case. READ ALSO: Court to rule on Agba Jalingo’s bail Friday “On interrogation, he admitted being the leader of the Eiye Confraternity in Ikenne and its environs; he equally confessed to being responsible for the killing of one Kabiru, whom he claimed to be a member of a rival cult. “His arrest elicited wild jubilation in Ikenne and its environs. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, has ordered a full-scale investigation into the past activities of the suspect with a view to charging him as soon as possible.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 