Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The family of one-year-old Joshua, who was abducted in the Ilasamaja area of Lagos State, has urged the police to prosecute the alleged kidnapper. Joshua was allegedly kidnapped by one Sodiq, alias Brain, on October 9 around 10am at his grandmother’s shop on Temitope Street in Ilasamaja. It was gathered that Sodiq, who was lurking around while Joshua’s mother was talking with her friend, allegedly abducted the boy and took to his heels. PUNCH Metro gathered that Joshua was rescued by his grandmother’s landlord, Adedotun Toguwa, who recognised him while he was being taken away by the suspect. Our correspondent learnt that Sodiq dropped Joshua when the landlord caught him, took to his heel and was caught around the Apata Hostel gate area of Okota. The suspect was subsequently taken to the Ilasamaja Police Station. Joshua’s mother, Iyabo Akpoli, told our correspondent that the suspect was an ex-convict and urged the police to prosecute him accordingly. She said, “On the day of the incident, my mother called me that I should bring a pot from her shop, but I told her that I would be going to the shop later in the day; so, she went to the shop to pick the pot, but because she was not feeling fine, I had to strap my son to my back and followed her. “When we opened the shop, some people came to greet her and asked after her health and she later left after taking the pot, but I was still there talking with my friend, while my son was by my side. I did not know that the kidnapper was lurking around, while all these were going on; he took my son when he noticed that we were not watching. “It was my mother’s landlord, who saw him with my son and challenged him as to where was he taking him to, and he said he was looking for one Waliu and the landlord said he was going to follow him to the said Waliu; that was when he started running and our landlord pursued him. “He was caught around the Apata Hostel, Okota, and taken to the police station; the police told us that he just came out of the prison and that he was a cultist. We want the police to prosecute him accordingly because such a person ought not be among the people.” The landlord, Toguwa, told our correspondent that the police confirmed to him that the suspect was well known to them, adding that they said he just came out of prison. He said, “I took a client to see a property and when I was on my way to my shop, I saw the suspect taking Joshua away and I challenged him and he said he was looking for one Waliu. I said I was going to follow him to Waliu’s house, but when he heard that, he started running and other residents and I ran after him and he was apprehended around the Okota area and he started begging and confessed that he wanted to kidnap the child. “We took him to the police station and the police told us that he just came out of the prison; they even confirmed that he was a thief and was well known to them. We want the police to prosecute him, because if I had not seen him that day, he would have taken the boy away and we would have been looking for him; so, the police should deal with him in accordance with the law.” However, when PUNCH Metro contacted the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, he stated that there was no record of Sodiq at the Ilasamaja Police Station. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 