Deji Lambo There was drama on Wednesday at the Industrial and General Insurance, Public Limited Company’s headquarters on Agoro-Odiyan Street, Victoria Island, Lagos State, as workers protested against the alleged sacking of over 60 employees by the company’s Managing Director, Rachael Emenike. During the protest, the employees were seen bearing placards and chanting solidarity songs in rejection of the management decision despite pending salary arrears. City Round gathered that the sack letters, distributed to the workers via WhatsApp, was a reaction to the petition issued to the IGI board members over the company’s alleged refusal to pay the workers for over 20 months. Our correspondent learnt from the protesters that efforts to get Emenike, who became the company’s MD on February 1, 2019, to pay their salaries proved abortive, as she claimed that the debts were not incurred during her tenure. The situation, however, took another dimension when Emenike employed a new Chief Finance Officer, Tolu Delano, and 10 personnel as consultants for IGI, and being paid by the IGI, despite her refusal to clear the debts incurred by her predecessor. Annoyed by this development, the affected workers, under the auspices of the Coalition of IGI Staff, petitioned the IGI’s board members to salvage the situation. One of the protesters, Akindele Ayodele, said the management’s response to the petition was to sack them despite owing them for over 20 months. He lamented that the situation deprived him of providing basic amenities for his family, urging the state government, including regulatory bodies, to intervene to rescue them from the situation. He said, “We also have six years of non-remittance of money into the contributory pension account and the National Housing Funds have also not been remitted for years. I was at home when I received a sack letter via WhatsApp. Over 48 of us received the message; I became confused because there was no communication regarding why they sacked us.’’ The Chairman, Coalition of IGI Staff, Samson Onipede, while rejecting the sack letters, said Emenike compounded the issue by refusing to accept some of the company’s liabilities. Onipede said, “We made the money she has been receiving as allowances and expending on travelling, but she refused to pay us. Some of us have not been paid salary for 20 months. We told her she is the MD who inherited the company, and so she has to inherit both assets and liabilities.’’ Documents sighted by our correspondent testified to the protesters’ claim of petitioning the IGI’s board members and being sacked through WhatsApp. But a letter rejecting the sacking had been written to Emenike, requesting withdrawal of letters to avoid chaos in the company. When contacted, the Head of Corporate Communications, IGI, Stephen Ilo, denied the claim that the MD said she wouldn’t pay the salary arrears. He said the sacked workers were part of a restructuring programme initiated by Emenike’s administration to enable the company get back into business. Ilo said, “There was no time that the MD said she won’t pay their salaries. But the fact of the matter is that the company does not have money and it has deprived us of meeting other commitments, including salary payment. “But the MD wants us to return to business but has been rearranging the whole situation through a restructuring programme by reducing our branches and bloated staff strength. There is nowhere staff number is reduced that there would be complaints. “Everyone sacked has a hard copy letter, but the Whatsapp is one of the channels used in reaching them and it is in a bid to ensure that people got their letters. All those sacked will still receive their salaries. But for the company to pay the money, it has to get back into business.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 